Guide to *LSLGA* Analysis
=========================

This README briefly describes our analysis procedure, and the purpose and
content of each notebook.

Input Data and Sample Selection
-------------------------------

1. *Query Hyperleda for an angular-diameter limited sample of galaxies.*

   First, construct a super-sample of all known galaxies (N=1,376,864 as of 2018
   May 13) with isophotal D(25) angular diameters greater than 10 arcsec by
   executing the following SQL query using `Hyperleda`_:

      ```
      SELECT
        pgc, objname, objtype, al2000, de2000, type, bar, ring,
        multiple, compactness, t, logd25, logr25, pa, bt, it,
        kt, v, modbest
      WHERE
        logd25 > 0.2218487 and (objtype='G' or objtype='M' or objtype='M2' or 
                                objtype='M3' or objtype='MG' or objtype='MC')
      ORDER BY
        al2000
      ```

   resulting in the catalog *hyperleda-d25min10-18may13.txt*.

2. *Parse and supplement the Hyperleda catalog with AllWISE photometry.*

   Next, parse the raw `Hyperleda`_ output 

   
.. _`Hyperleda`: http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/fullsql.html

2. *Assemble Legacy Surveys photometry for the redMaPPer centrals.*
   
   Next, we assemble *grz* and *W1-W4* photometry from the `Legacy Surveys/DR6`_
   and `Legacy Surveys/DR7`_ sweep files for the
   **dr8_run_redmapper_v6.3.1_lgt5_catalog.fit** parent catalog using the
   `match-legacysurvey-redmapper.slurm`_ SLURM script.

3. *Select the parent sample.*

   Third, we build the parent sample of central galaxies as the set of galaxies
   in the *redMaPPer/v6.3.1* centrals catalog with high-fidelity, full-depth
   *grzW1W2* photometry from the Legacy Surveys.  This step is documented in the
   `legacyhalos-sample-selection.ipynb`_ Jupyter notebook.

Analysis for Paper 1
--------------------

* `legacyhalos-parent-qaplots.ipynb`_ -- This notebook generates a variety of
  QAplots from the legacyhalos parent catalogs generated by
  `legacyhalos-parent.ipynb`_. 


Analysis for Paper 2
--------------------

1. Coadds.

2. Ellipse-fitting.

3. Surface brightness profile modeling.

4. Stellar masses



Future Work
-----------

What's next?


References
----------

**Relevant papers**

* 

.. _`SDSS/CasJobs`: http://skyserver.sdss.org/CasJobs

.. _`redmapper-sdssWISEphot.ipynb`: https://github.com/moustakas/legacyhalos/blob/master/doc/redmapper-sdssWISEphot.ipynb

.. _`match-legacysurvey-redmapper.slurm`: https://github.com/moustakas/legacyhalos/blob/master/bin/match-legacysurvey-redmapper.slurm

.. _`Legacy Surveys/DR6`: http://legacysurvey.org/dr6/files/#sweep-catalogs

.. _`Legacy Surveys/DR7`: http://legacysurvey.org/dr7/files/#sweep-catalogs

.. _`legacyhalos-sample-selection.ipynb`: https://github.com/moustakas/legacyhalos/blob/master/doc/legacyhalos-sample-selection.ipynb


**ToDo**

1. Build unWISE and GALEX mosaics.
2. Filter and sort the sample; try to remove spurious sources.
3. Include additional metadata in the webpage.
