SGA-2025
========

The SGA-2025 delivers multiwavelength imaging mosaics and ellipse
photometry for nearly half a million large, resolved galaxies across
approximately 30,000 deg² of the extragalactic sky.

This page describes the organization of the public data release (v1.0),
the naming conventions used throughout, and the data model of the primary
science-ready merged catalogs.

.. _data-access:

Data Access
-----------

.. note::

   The SGA-2025 data release and web visualizations are currently in
   draft form and still a work in progress.

**Merged catalogs** *(right-click → Save link as to download)*
(see :ref:`merged-catalogs` for the data model and :ref:`imaging-regions` for region descriptions):

- `SGA2025-v1.0.fits <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/sga/2025/SGA2025-v1.0.fits>`__ — full, deduplicated catalog — 470,625 galaxies, 1.7 GB
- `SGA2025-dr11-north-v1.0.fits <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/sga/2025/SGA2025-dr11-north-v1.0.fits>`__ — 90,504 galaxies, 340 MB
- `SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/sga/2025/SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits>`__ — 395,435 galaxies, 1.4 GB

**Web visualizations** *(work in progress)*:

- `dr11-north gallery <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/sga/2025/html/index-dr11-north.html>`__
- `dr11-south gallery <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/sga/2025/html/index-dr11-south.html>`__

**Per-group data files** — for bulk download via ``wget`` or Globus
(see :ref:`per-group-files` for the full file inventory):

- `dr11-north <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/data/sga/2025/data/dr11-north/>`__
- `dr11-south <https://portal.nersc.gov/project/cosmo/data/sga/2025/data/dr11-south/>`__

.. _naming:

Naming Conventions
------------------

We use two layers of identifiers throughout the SGA-2025: **groups**
(mosaics containing one or more spatially/angularly associated
galaxies) and **objects** (individual galaxies within each
group). Most objects in the sample are in singleton groups.

Groups: ``GROUP_NAME`` and ``SGAGROUP``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We process each SGA-2025 mosaic as a *group* — a set of one or more
galaxies whose angular sizes and separations place them within the
same mosaic footprint. The mosaic is centered on the diameter-weighted
centroid of its members.

Two catalog columns identify a group:

- ``GROUP_NAME`` (str10, e.g. ``00000m0649``) — the bare group name,
  used as the on-disk **directory name**.
- ``SGAGROUP`` (str18, e.g. ``SGA2025_00000m0649``) — the prefixed form,
  used as the **file-name prefix** for all per-group output files inside that
  directory.

The encoding is ``RRRRR[p|m]DDDD`` where ``RRRRR`` = RA × 100 (five digits,
zero-padded), the separator is ``p`` (positive Dec) or ``m`` (negative Dec),
and ``DDDD`` = ``abs(Dec)`` × 100 (four digits, zero-padded), both at a precision of
0.01° (36 arcsec). For example, a group centered at RA = 0.00°, Dec = −6.49°
has ``GROUP_NAME = 00000m0649``.

In groups with more than one member (``GROUP_MULT`` > 1),
``GROUP_PRIMARY`` identifies the largest galaxy in the group based on
its *initial* diameter. ``GROUP_RA`` and ``GROUP_DEC`` give the
diameter-weighted centroid; ``GROUP_DIAMETER`` (in arcmin) gives the
diameter of the smallest circle enclosing all member ellipses.

Objects: ``SGAID`` and ``SGANAME``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Individual galaxies within a group are identified by:

- ``SGAID`` (int64) — a unique integer identifier assigned to each source.
- ``SGANAME`` (str25, e.g. ``SGA2025 J000.000−006.490``) — an IAU-style
  coordinate name at 0.001° (3.6 arcsec) precision, formed from the fitted
  galaxy coordinates ``RA`` and ``DEC``.
- ``OBJNAME`` (str30) — the common name from the input parent catalog
  (`HyperLeda <http://atlas.obs-hp.fr/hyperleda/>`_,
  `NED <https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu/>`_,
  `LVD <https://local-volume-database.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_, etc.).

Galaxy Names: ``GALAXY`` and ``ALTNAMES``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``GALAXY`` (str35) is the primary human-readable name assigned to each
source. ``ALTNAMES`` (str200) holds up to three additional names,
pipe-separated. We derive both from NED's pipe-separated ``CROSSIDS``
cross-identification list through the following steps, applied in order:

1. **HOST fix** — If the NED-primary name contains ``HOST`` (e.g.
   ``SN 2003H HOST``), we promote the first non-HOST entry in ``CROSSIDS``
   to position 0 and append the original HOST name at the end
   (deduplicated case-insensitively).

2. **Famous-name promotion** — We promote the highest-priority well-known
   catalog name anywhere in ``CROSSIDS`` to ``GALAXY``, regardless of
   NED's own ordering. Priority order (highest first): Messier, NGC,
   IC, UGCA/UGC, ESO, ESO-LV, MCG, ARP, MRK, DDO, KDG, VCC, CGCG, PGC,
   PGC1, AGC, FCC, HCG, HIPASS. Names absent from this list (2MASX,
   SDSS, WISE, ICRF, etc.) remain as ``GALAXY`` only when no
   higher-priority name is available.

3. **Special-character fix** — If the promoted ``GALAXY`` name contains
   characters outside the safe set (letters, digits, space, ``+``, ``-``,
   ``.``, ``_``, ``:``) — a common pattern for NED names beginning with
   ``[`` — we promote the first ``ALTNAMES`` candidate that passes the
   safe-character test to ``GALAXY`` instead and move the original name
   into ``ALTNAMES``.

4. **Prefix normalization** — We fully uppercase known catalog-name
   prefixes (e.g. ``Mrk`` → ``MRK``, ``Arp`` → ``ARP``, ``UGCa`` →
   ``UGCA``). We intentionally leave ``Messier`` in mixed case.

5. **OBJNAME fallback** — If NED returned no match for the object, we set
   ``GALAXY`` to ``OBJNAME`` from the parent catalog.

6. **Hand-curated overrides** — We apply a small dictionary of one-off
   corrections (e.g. ``MESSIER 109`` → ``Messier 109``) after all rules
   above.

We build ``ALTNAMES`` from the remaining ``CROSSIDS`` entries (after
removing the promoted ``GALAXY`` name and dropping case-insensitive
duplicates), applying prefix normalization; the field is blank when no
alternatives remain.

.. _imaging-regions:

Imaging Regions
---------------

SGA-2025 covers two (mostly) non-overlapping imaging regions drawn
from the `DESI Legacy Imaging Surveys
<https://www.legacysurvey.org/>`_ `Data Release 11 (DR11)
<https://www.legacysurvey.org/dr11>`_ , which together span
approximately 30,000 deg² of the sky (or 90% of the extragalactic sky
at Galactic latitude `|b|>10`).

**dr11-south** uses *g*-, *r*-, *i*-, and *z*-band imaging from the
Dark Energy Camera (DECam) at the 4-m Victor M. Blanco Telescope at
Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory (CTIO).

**dr11-north** combines two surveys covering the sky north of roughly Dec ≈
+32°:

- **BASS** (Beijing-Arizona Sky Survey) — provides *g*- and *r*-band
  imaging from the 90-Prime wide-field imager at the University of
  Arizona's 2.3-m Bok telescope on Kitt Peak National Observatory.
- **MzLS** (Mayall z-band Legacy Survey) — provides *z*-band imaging
  obtained with the Mosaic-3 camera at the NOAO 4-m Mayall telescope
  on Kitt Peak National Observatory.

The northern region therefore has three optical bands (*g*, *r*, *z*)
with no *i*-band coverage. The ``BANDS`` column in the merged catalog
records which optical bands are actually available for each galaxy.

In addition to the optical imaging, the SGA-2025 also includes:

- **Infrared**: unWISE W1 (3.4 μm) and W2 (4.6 μm) and WISE W3 (12 μm) and W4
  (22 μm) mosaics, derived from the full-depth coadded WISE satellite imaging.
- **Ultraviolet**: GALEX FUV (~1530 Å) and NUV (~2310 Å) imaging (where GALEX
  sky coverage exists).

.. _merged-catalogs:

Merged Catalogs
---------------

The per-region merged catalogs combine all per-group ellipse
photometry, `NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database (NED)
<https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu/>`_ cross-matched results, spectroscopic
redshifts from the `Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument Data Release
1 (DESI/DR1) <https://data.desi.lbl.gov/doc/releases/dr1/>`_ and
`SDSS DR17 <https://www.sdss4.org/dr17/>`_, and direct distances from the
`Local Volume Database (LVD)
<https://local-volume-database.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ and
NED into a single FITS file per imaging region.

These catalogs are the starting point for most science use cases.

Catalog Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We provide two versioned FITS files, one per imaging region (see
:ref:`data-access` for direct download links):

.. code-block:: none

   SGA2025-dr11-north-v1.0.fits    ( 90,504 galaxies, 340 MB)
   SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits    (395,435 galaxies, 1.4 GB)

Each file has three binary table extensions:

- ``SGA2025`` — the primary science catalog: identification, geometry,
  cross-matched redshifts and distances, and a nominal flux per band for
  every galaxy.
- ``ELLIPSEPHOT`` — the full aperture-photometry and curve-of-growth grid
  behind the nominal fluxes, row-matched to ``SGA2025`` via ``SGAID`` (its
  leading column).
- ``TRACTOR`` — Tractor source-fitting parameters, row-matched to
  ``SGA2025`` via ``REF_ID`` (duplicated as a leading ``SGAID`` column too).

Reading the Catalogs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The catalogs are standard FITS binary tables. The recommended way to read
them is via `fitsio <https://github.com/esheldon/fitsio>`__ wrapped in an
`astropy Table <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/table/>`__:

.. code-block:: python

   import fitsio
   from astropy.table import Table

   sga     = Table(fitsio.read('SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits', ext='SGA2025'))
   phot    = Table(fitsio.read('SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits', ext='ELLIPSEPHOT'))
   tractor = Table(fitsio.read('SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits', ext='TRACTOR'))

fitsio also supports reading a subset of columns:

.. code-block:: python

   sga = Table(fitsio.read('SGA2025-dr11-south-v1.0.fits', ext='SGA2025',
                           columns=['GALAXY', 'RA', 'DEC', 'D26', 'Z']))

Most analyses begin from the group primary galaxies (one per group):

.. code-block:: python

   import numpy as np

   primaries = sga[sga['GROUP_PRIMARY']]

Common row selections:

.. code-block:: python

   # Diameter cuts (arcmin)
   I = (sga['D26'] > 1.) & (sga['D26'] < 10.)

   # Specific galaxies by name
   I = np.isin(sga['GALAXY'], ['Messier 065', 'NGC 3621'])

   # Local Volume Database objects (SAMPLE bit 1)
   I = (sga['SAMPLE'] & 1) != 0

   # Groups with 2–5 members
   I = (sga['GROUP_MULT'] >= 2) & (sga['GROUP_MULT'] <= 5)

   # Galaxies with a measured redshift
   I = sga['Z_IVAR'] > 0

.. _data-model:

Data Model: SGA2025 Extension
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``SGA2025`` extension contains one row per galaxy. We organize columns
into the groups below.

**Identification and sky position**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``SGAID``
     - int64
     - Unique SGA identifier
   * - ``SGANAME``
     - str25
     - IAU-style name (``SGA2025 JXXX.XXX±YY.YYY``)
   * - ``GALAXY``
     - str35
     - Primary NED name (first entry from NED cross-ID list)
   * - ``ALTNAMES``
     - str200
     - Up to three additional NED cross-IDs, pipe-separated
   * - ``OBJNAME``
     - str30
     - Common galaxy name from the parent catalog
   * - ``PGC``
     - int32
     - PGC identifier (0 if unavailable)
   * - ``RA``, ``DEC``
     - float64
     - Fitted galaxy coordinates (deg)
   * - ``RA_TRACTOR``, ``DEC_TRACTOR``
     - float64
     - Tractor-fitted position (deg)
   * - ``MORPH``
     - str30
     - NED morphological type string

**Status and quality bitmasks**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``SGAGROUP``
     - str18
     - Prefixed group name (e.g. ``SGA2025_00000m0649``)
   * - ``REGION``
     - int16
     - Imaging region bitmask (see :ref:`bitmasks`)
   * - ``SAMPLE``
     - int32
     - Sample classification bitmask (see :ref:`bitmasks`)
   * - ``ELLIPSEBIT``
     - int32
     - Output quality and status flags (see :ref:`bitmasks`)
   * - ``ELLIPSEMODE``
     - int32
     - Input fitting-mode flags requested for this object
   * - ``BANDS``
     - str4
     - Optical bands available (e.g. ``griz``, ``grz``)

**Adopted redshift** (see :ref:`redshifts` for resolution logic)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``Z``
     - float64
     - Adopted redshift (0 = no measurement; use ``Z_IVAR > 0`` to test)
   * - ``Z_IVAR``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of adopted redshift (0 = no measurement)
   * - ``Z_REF``
     - str4
     - Source of adopted redshift: ``LVD``, ``DESI``, ``SDSS``, ``NED``, or blank
   * - ``Z_FLAG``
     - int16
     - Redshift quality flag bitmask (see :ref:`bitmasks`)

**Adopted distance** (see :ref:`distances` for resolution logic)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``DIST``
     - float32
     - Adopted distance (Mpc; 0 = no measurement)
   * - ``DIST_IVAR``
     - float32
     - Inverse variance of adopted distance (Mpc\ :sup:`−2`; 0 = no measurement)
   * - ``DIST_REF``
     - str10
     - Source of adopted distance: ``NED_DIRECT``, ``LVD``, ``NED``, or ``ZCOSMO``
   * - ``DIST_METHOD``
     - str16
     - Specific distance technique (e.g. ``TRGB``, ``SBF``, LVD's own reported
       method, ``NED_MEAN``, or ``HUBBLE_FLOW``)

**Photometric redshift** (see :ref:`redshifts` for details)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``Z_PHOT``
     - float64
     - Random-forest photometric redshift (0 = no measurement; use
       ``Z_PHOT_IVAR > 0`` to test)
   * - ``Z_PHOT_IVAR``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_PHOT`` (0 = no measurement)

**Peculiar-velocity-corrected redshift** (see :ref:`redshifts` for details)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``Z_COSMO``
     - float64
     - CMB-frame redshift with the mean pvhub-predicted peculiar velocity
       removed (0 = no measurement; use ``Z_COSMO_IVAR > 0`` to test)
   * - ``Z_COSMO_IVAR``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_COSMO`` (0 = no measurement)

**Group membership**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``GROUP_NAME``
     - str10
     - Bare group name (= on-disk directory name)
   * - ``GROUP_MULT``
     - int16
     - Group multiplicity (i.e., number of group members)
   * - ``GROUP_PRIMARY``
     - bool
     - ``True`` for the primary (largest) group member based on the *initial* diameter
   * - ``GROUP_RA``, ``GROUP_DEC``
     - float64
     - Diameter-weighted group centroid coordinates (deg)
   * - ``GROUP_DIAMETER``
     - float32
     - Angular diameter of the full group (arcmin)

**Fitted geometry**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``D26``
     - float32
     - Isophotal diameter at μ = 26 mag arcsec⁻² (arcmin)
   * - ``D26_ERR``
     - float32
     - 1σ uncertainty on D26 (arcmin)
   * - ``D26_REF``
     - str3
     - Band from which D26 was derived (one of ``g``, ``r``, ``i``, ``z``; ``mom`` if the moment-based SMA was the only available estimate; ``fix`` when the ``FIXGEO`` ``ELLIPSEMODE`` bit is set and the geometry was held fixed)
   * - ``BA``
     - float32
     - Final axis ratio b/a
   * - ``PA``
     - float32
     - Final position angle (deg, N through E)
   * - ``SMA_MOMENT``
     - float32
     - Semi-major axis from flux-weighted moments (arcsec)
   * - ``BA_MOMENT``
     - float32
     - Axis ratio b/a from moments
   * - ``PA_MOMENT``
     - float32
     - Position angle from moments (deg, N through E)
   * - ``SMA50_{G,R,I,Z}`` / ``SMA50_ERR_{G,R,I,Z}``
     - float32
     - Optical half-light semi-major axis ± uncertainty, from the
       curve-of-growth fit (arcsec); IR/UV bands are in ``ELLIPSEPHOT``

**Nominal photometry** (default aperture/method; see the
``ELLIPSEPHOT`` HDU for the full aperture grid and curve-of-growth
fits)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``SMA_FLUX``
     - float32
     - Aperture semi-major axis the nominal flux was measured within
       (arcsec); −1 for a source (e.g. a curve-of-growth total) with no
       finite aperture
   * - ``FLUX_REF``
     - str8
     - Source of the nominal flux, per galaxy (currently ``AP04`` for
       every galaxy, one of the aperture radii in ``ELLIPSEPHOT``; future
       releases may select a different aperture or method per galaxy)
   * - ``FLUX_{band}``
     - float32
     - Nominal flux (nanomaggies); all 10 bands
   * - ``FLUX_IVAR_{band}``
     - float32
     - Inverse variance of ``FLUX_{band}`` (nanomaggies\ :sup:`−2`); all 10 bands

**Imaging quality and corrections**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``EBV``
     - float32
     - Milky Way E(B−V) from Schlegel et al. (1998) (mag)
   * - ``MW_TRANSMISSION_{band}``
     - float32
     - Milky Way transmission fraction (0–1); all 10 bands
   * - ``PSFSIZE_{G,R,I,Z}``
     - float32
     - Effective PSF FWHM in each optical band (arcsec)
   * - ``PSFDEPTH_{G,R,I,Z}``
     - float32
     - 5σ point-source depth in each optical band (mag)

**DESI DR1 spectroscopy**

The columns below record the single best
`DESI <https://data.desi.lbl.gov/doc/releases/dr1/>`_ spectrum selected for
each galaxy (see :ref:`redshifts`). Sentinel values: ``TARGETID_DESI``
and ``ZWARN_DESI`` are −1 when no spectrum was selected; ``Z_DESI`` and
``Z_IVAR_DESI`` are 0; ``DELTACHI2_DESI`` is −1; string columns are blank.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``TARGETID_DESI``
     - int64
     - DESI target identifier (−1 if no spectrum)
   * - ``SURVEY_DESI``
     - str7
     - DESI survey (e.g. ``main``, ``sv1``, ``sv3``)
   * - ``PROGRAM_DESI``
     - str6
     - DESI observing program (e.g. ``bright``, ``dark``)
   * - ``Z_DESI``
     - float64
     - DESI spectroscopic redshift (0 if no valid spectrum)
   * - ``Z_IVAR_DESI``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_DESI`` (0 if no valid spectrum)
   * - ``ZWARN_DESI``
     - int64
     - DESI redshift warning bitmask (−1 if no spectrum)
   * - ``DELTACHI2_DESI``
     - float64
     - DESI Δχ² between best and second-best redshift fit (−1 if no spectrum)
   * - ``SPECTYPE_DESI``
     - str6
     - DESI spectral classification (e.g. ``GALAXY``, ``QSO``, ``STAR``)
   * - ``NSPEC_DESI``
     - int32
     - Number of DESI spectra (any ZWARN) within the SGA ellipse (0 if none)

**SDSS DR17 spectroscopy**

The closest quality-filtered `SDSS DR17 <https://www.sdss4.org/dr17/>`_
spectrum matched within 3.5 arcsec of the galaxy position (see
:ref:`redshifts`). Sentinels: ``Z_SDSS``
and ``Z_IVAR_SDSS`` are 0; string columns are blank.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``SPECOBJID_SDSS``
     - str22
     - SDSS spectrum identifier (encodes plate/mjd/fiber/run2d; blank if no match)
   * - ``Z_SDSS``
     - float64
     - SDSS spectroscopic redshift (0 if no match)
   * - ``Z_IVAR_SDSS``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_SDSS`` (0 if no match)
   * - ``CLASS_SDSS``
     - str6
     - SDSS spectral classification (``GALAXY`` or ``QSO``)

**NED redshift and distance**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``Z_NED``
     - float64
     - NED redshift (0 = no NED redshift)
   * - ``Z_IVAR_NED``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_NED``; derived from ``NED_Z_UNC``. When
       ``NED_Z_UNC = 0`` (error not reported in NED), a nominal uncertainty
       of 100 km/s is assumed. Set to 0 only when no NED redshift exists.
   * - ``Z_REF_NED``
     - str
     - NED reference for the redshift
   * - ``DIST_NED``
     - float32
     - NED distance (Mpc; 0 = no NED distance)
   * - ``DIST_IVAR_NED``
     - float32
     - Inverse variance of ``DIST_NED`` (Mpc\ :sup:`−2`; 0 if no NED distance
       or no formal uncertainty was reported)
   * - ``DIST_NED_DIRECT``
     - float32
     - NED "gold-tier" direct distance, from a single high-precision
       measurement from the literature (Mpc; 0 = none available)
   * - ``DIST_IVAR_NED_DIRECT``
     - float32
     - Inverse variance of ``DIST_NED_DIRECT`` (Mpc\ :sup:`−2`; 0 if no
       uncertainty was reported)
   * - ``DIST_NED_DIRECT_METHOD``
     - str16
     - Distance technique used for ``DIST_NED_DIRECT`` (e.g. ``TRGB``, ``SBF``,
       ``Cepheids``)
   * - ``NED_FLAG``
     - int32
     - NED cross-match quality flag (see :ref:`bitmasks`)
   * - ``NED_Z_FLAG``
     - int32
     - NED redshift-resolution flag (see :ref:`bitmasks`)

**LVD redshift and distance**

These columns are populated only for objects in the Local Volume Database
(``SAMPLE & LVD != 0``). Velocities are converted from km/s using
``Z = v_los / c``.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``Z_LVD``
     - float64
     - LVD systemic redshift from ``vlos_systemic`` (0 if not in LVD)
   * - ``Z_IVAR_LVD``
     - float64
     - Inverse variance of ``Z_LVD`` from ``vlos_sigma`` (0 if no LVD
       velocity error)
   * - ``DIST_LVD``
     - float32
     - LVD distance (Mpc, converted from kpc; 0 if not in LVD)
   * - ``DIST_IVAR_LVD``
     - float32
     - Inverse variance of ``DIST_LVD`` (Mpc\ :sup:`−2`; 0 if no LVD distance
       uncertainty)

**Initial geometry**

These columns record the geometry adopted from the input parent catalog,
before any ellipse fitting, for comparison against the final fitted values.
``INIT_REF`` encodes the source of the initial diameter: one of
``SGA2020``, ``HYPERLEDA``, ``LIT``, ``LVD``, ``SMUDGes``, ``RC3``, or
``VI`` (visually inspected and added during processing).

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 26 9 65

   * - Column
     - Type
     - Description
   * - ``RA_INIT``, ``DEC_INIT``
     - float64
     - Parent-catalog coordinates used to initialize processing (deg;
       −1 if not available)
   * - ``DIAM_INIT``
     - float32
     - Initial diameter from the parent catalog (arcmin; −1 if not available)
   * - ``BA_INIT``
     - float32
     - Initial axis ratio b/a from the parent catalog (−1 if not available)
   * - ``PA_INIT``
     - float32
     - Initial position angle from the parent catalog (deg, N through E;
       −1 if not available)
   * - ``MAG_INIT``
     - float32
     - Initial magnitude from the parent catalog (mag; −1 if not available)
   * - ``OPTFLUX``
     - float32
     - Optical reference flux used to set source-masking priority within a
       group (nanomaggies; 0 if not set)
   * - ``SMA_MASK``
     - float32
     - Semi-major axis used for neighbor masking during ellipse fitting
       (arcsec; 0 if not set); overrides the moment-based SMA when positive
   * - ``INIT_REF``
     - str14
     - Source catalog for ``DIAM_INIT`` (blank if not available)

Data Model: ELLIPSEPHOT Extension
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``ELLIPSEPHOT`` extension is row-matched to ``SGA2025`` via ``SGAID``
(its leading column) and holds the full aperture-photometry and
curve-of-growth grid behind ``SGA2025``'s nominal ``FLUX_{band}`` columns,
along with related morphology and radius measurements most analyses won't
need directly.

**Morphology and total magnitudes** — all 10 bands: G, R, I, Z, W1, W2, W3,
W4, FUV, NUV

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 35 65

   * - Column pattern
     - Description
   * - ``GINI_{band}``
     - Gini coefficient of the light distribution
   * - ``COG_MTOT_{band}`` / ``COG_MTOT_ERR_{band}``
     - Curve-of-growth total magnitude ± uncertainty (mag)
   * - ``COG_DMAG_{band}`` / ``COG_DMAG_ERR_{band}``
     - COG aperture correction ± uncertainty (mag)
   * - ``COG_LNALPHA1_{band}`` / ``COG_LNALPHA1_ERR_{band}``
     - COG Sérsic inner shape parameter ± uncertainty
   * - ``COG_LNALPHA2_{band}`` / ``COG_LNALPHA2_ERR_{band}``
     - COG Sérsic outer shape parameter ± uncertainty
   * - ``COG_CHI2_{band}``
     - COG fit χ² (float32)
   * - ``COG_NDOF_{band}``
     - COG fit degrees of freedom (int32)

**Half-light radius** — IR/UV bands only (optical ``SMA50_{G,R,I,Z}`` is in
``SGA2025``)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 35 65

   * - Column pattern
     - Description
   * - ``SMA50_{band}`` / ``SMA50_ERR_{band}``
     - Half-light semi-major axis ± uncertainty, from the curve-of-growth
       fit (arcsec); W1, W2, W3, W4, FUV, NUV

**Isophotal radii** — optical bands G, R, I, Z only

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 35 65

   * - Column pattern
     - Description
   * - ``R{22,23,24,25,26}_{band}``
     - Isophotal semi-major axis at μ = 22–26 mag arcsec⁻² (arcsec)
   * - ``R{22,23,24,25,26}_ERR_{band}``
     - 1σ uncertainty on the isophotal radius (arcsec)

**Aperture photometry** — all 10 bands

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 35 65

   * - Column pattern
     - Description
   * - ``SMA_AP{00–04}``
     - Aperture semi-major axes (arcsec); AP00–AP04 correspond to
       [0.5, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, 2.0] × ``SMA_MOMENT``
   * - ``FLUX_AP{00–04}_{band}``
     - Aperture flux (nanomaggies)
   * - ``FLUX_ERR_AP{00–04}_{band}``
     - Aperture flux uncertainty (nanomaggies)
   * - ``FMASKED_AP{00–04}_{band}``
     - Masked pixel fraction within aperture (0–1)

``SGA2025``'s ``FLUX_{band}``/``FLUX_IVAR_{band}`` are drawn from one of
these apertures per galaxy, recorded in ``FLUX_REF`` and ``SMA_FLUX``.

Data Model: TRACTOR Extension
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``TRACTOR`` extension is row-matched to ``SGA2025`` via ``REF_ID``
(duplicated as a leading ``SGAID`` column) and contains Tractor
source-fitting parameters for each SGA galaxy and all sources detected
within its ellipse. See the `Legacy Surveys documentation
<https://www.legacysurvey.org/>`_ for the full Tractor data model.

.. _redshifts:

Redshifts
~~~~~~~~~

The merged catalogs cross-match four independent redshift sources —
`DESI DR1 <https://data.desi.lbl.gov/doc/releases/dr1/>`_,
`SDSS DR17 <https://www.sdss4.org/dr17/>`_,
`NED <https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu/>`_, and the
`Local Volume Database (LVD) <https://local-volume-database.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_.

**Adopted redshift (Z, Z_IVAR, Z_REF)**

Priority order **LVD > DESI > SDSS > NED**:

1. ``Z_REF = LVD`` when ``Z_IVAR_LVD > 0``.
2. ``Z_REF = DESI`` when ``Z_IVAR_DESI > 0``.
3. ``Z_REF = SDSS`` when ``Z_IVAR_SDSS > 0``.
4. ``Z_REF = NED`` when ``Z_IVAR_NED > 0``.
5. ``Z_REF = ''`` (blank) when no source has a valid redshift.

.. important::

   Use ``Z_IVAR > 0`` to test for a valid redshift. ``Z = 0`` is the
   sentinel for *no measurement*, but is also a valid (if rare) redshift
   for very nearby galaxies.

**DESI DR1 spectrum selection**

We apply this to all spectra within 3.5 arcsec of the SGA position:

1. Keep only ``ZCAT_PRIMARY = True``.
2. Drop ``SPECTYPE = STAR``, and any ``GALAXY``/``QSO`` spectrum with ``Z > 1.0``.
3. Prefer ``SPECTYPE = GALAXY`` with ``ZWARN = 0``; otherwise any ``ZWARN = 0``.
4. Take the highest ``DELTACHI2`` among survivors.

``Z_IVAR_DESI = 0`` if no spectrum survives. ``NSPEC_DESI`` counts all DESI
spectra within the ellipse regardless of selection outcome.

**SDSS DR17 spectrum selection**

We match against SDSS DR17 ``specObj`` using a single fixed-radius
(3.5 arcsec) positional search, pre-filtered to ``SPECPRIMARY = 1``,
``CLASS`` in (``GALAXY``, ``QSO``), and clean redshift warnings
(``ZWARNING_NOQSO = 0`` for QSOs, ``ZWARNING = 0`` for galaxies). We drop
``Z > 1.0`` as physically implausible for this sample (mirroring the DESI
cut above), and keep the closest remaining match when more than one falls
within the radius. This match is independent of NED's own SDSS-derived
redshifts (see ``NED_Z_FLAG`` below) and takes priority over them, since NED
does not propagate SDSS's own quality flags.

**NED redshift resolution**

We replace NED's aggregated ("fiducial") ``Z_NED`` with a value drawn from
NED's full redshift-measurement list for the object when it:

- exceeds a threshold (0.4 by default),
- is missing entirely, or
- comes from a censored source: the Bilicki et al. (2014) 2MASS
  photometric-redshift catalog, or an SDSS-compilation reference (superseded
  by the direct SDSS DR17 match above).

We group candidate measurements into clusters of mutually agreeing
values; if one cluster dominates, we adopt its highest-quality measurement.
Otherwise, or if no candidates exist, we flag the result rather
than silently trust it (see ``NED_Z_FLAG`` / ``Z_FLAG`` in :ref:`bitmasks`).

**Consensus override**

DESI always wins normal priority when measured, so it is the only source
that can end up adopted despite being the outlier: when DESI, SDSS, and NED
are all measured and SDSS/NED agree with each other but not with DESI, we
replace the adopted redshift with SDSS's and flag it ``CONSENSUS_OVERRIDE``
(see :ref:`bitmasks`).

**Automatic NED override**

This sample is overwhelmingly z < 0.3, so we treat an adopted DESI/SDSS
redshift above 0.3 with an independent NED measurement on file as a fiber
landing on a background source: we replace the adopted redshift with NED's
and flag it ``AUTO_NED_OVERRIDE`` (see :ref:`bitmasks`).

**Manual VI overrides**

We resolve a small residual of flagged redshifts (see ``Z_FLAG`` in
:ref:`bitmasks`) by hand and feed them back in as a worksheet CSV keyed by
``SGAID``, overriding or discarding the adopted redshift and setting
``VI_REVIEWED``.

**Photometric redshift (Z_PHOT, Z_PHOT_IVAR)**

We train a `scikit-learn RandomForestRegressor
<https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor.html>`_
on the subsample of galaxies with an adopted spectroscopic redshift,
using Milky Way extinction-corrected optical/infrared colors, an
apparent magnitude, mean surface brightness, angular diameter, aspect
ratio (*b/a*), and the Tractor Sérsic index as features. Apparent
magnitude and surface brightness, :math:`m` and
:math:`\langle\mu\rangle`, respectively, use the *r* band, falling
back to *i* and then *g* when *r* is unavailable, where

.. math::

   \langle\mu\rangle = m + 2.5\,\log_{10}\!\left(\frac{\pi}{4}\,\frac{b}{a}\,(60\,D_{26})^2\right)

and ``D26`` is the major-axis diameter at the
:math:`26~\mathrm{mag~arcsec}^{-2}` isophote in arcmin.

We validate the model with 5-fold cross-validation, then retrain it on
the full spectroscopic subsample and predict ``Z_PHOT`` for every
galaxy in the catalog. ``Z_PHOT_IVAR`` is the inverse variance of the
spread of predictions across the individual trees of the forest.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 60 40

   * - Feature
     - Importance
   * - *g* − *r*
     - 0.5622
   * - Angular diameter (``D26``)
     - 0.0805
   * - Apparent magnitude :math:`m`
     - 0.0786
   * - *z* − W1
     - 0.0559
   * - Surface brightness :math:`\langle\mu\rangle`
     - 0.0538
   * - W1 − W2
     - 0.0510
   * - Sérsic index (``SERSIC``)
     - 0.0312
   * - *r* − *i*
     - 0.0286
   * - NUV − *g*
     - 0.0196
   * - Aspect ratio b/a (``BA``)
     - 0.0157
   * - *i* − *z*
     - 0.0153

**Peculiar-velocity-corrected redshift (Z_COSMO, Z_COSMO_IVAR)**

For every galaxy with ``Z_IVAR > 0``, we convert the heliocentric ``Z`` to
the CMB frame using the standard dipole
(`Planck 2018 <https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/full_html/2020/09/aa33910-18/aa33910-18.html>`_:
369.82 km/s toward RA = 167.942°, Dec = −6.944°, J2000).

Below 20,000 km/s, `pvhub <https://github.com/KSaid-1/pvhub>`_ (Said et al.)
predicts the line-of-sight peculiar velocity from four independent linear
reconstructions (2M++-SDSS, 2M++-SDSS+6dF, 2MRS, 2M++); ``Z_COSMO`` is the
CMB-frame redshift with their mean peculiar velocity removed, and
``Z_COSMO_IVAR`` combines the model-to-model scatter with the measurement
uncertainty in quadrature. Beyond 20,000 km/s, ``Z_COSMO`` is simply the
CMB-frame redshift and ``Z_COSMO_IVAR`` carries over ``Z_IVAR`` unchanged.

When this leaves ``Z_COSMO`` undefined, we substitute, in priority order:

1. The equivalent Hubble-flow redshift from an independently measured
   distance (``NED_DIRECT``, ``LVD``, or ``NED``; see :ref:`distances`),
   inverted through our fiducial cosmology.
2. The CMB-frame-converted photometric redshift, ``Z_PHOT``, with
   ``Z_COSMO_IVAR`` set from ``Z_PHOT_IVAR``.

.. _distances:

Distances
~~~~~~~~~

We assign distances from four sources, in priority order:
high-precision "gold-tier" measurements compiled by
`NED <https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu/>`_, the
`Local Volume Database (LVD) <https://local-volume-database.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_,
NED's own blended "mean" distance, and — for every remaining galaxy with a
measured redshift — a luminosity distance derived from ``Z_COSMO`` under our
fiducial cosmology, flat ΛCDM with H0 = 70 km/s/Mpc and Ωm = 0.3.

**Adopted distance (DIST, DIST_IVAR, DIST_REF, DIST_METHOD)**

Priority order **NED direct > LVD > NED mean > Hubble flow**:

1. ``DIST_REF = NED_DIRECT`` when a high-precision "gold-tier" distance is
   available from NED, in priority order Cepheids, TRGB, PNLF, SBF, SNIa,
   SNII, GCLF, SNIa-SDSS. The highest-priority method present must be
   confirmed by at least 3 independent references. If it is not, and a
   lower-priority method is confirmed by at least 3 references, agrees with
   itself to 15%, and disagrees with the top method by more than 15%, we
   adopt that lower-priority method's mean and standard deviation instead.
2. ``DIST_REF = LVD`` when ``DIST_LVD > 0`` (converted from kpc to Mpc).
3. ``DIST_REF = NED`` when ``DIST_NED > 0`` (NED's blended "mean" distance).
4. ``DIST_REF = ZCOSMO`` for every remaining galaxy with a measured
   redshift: the luminosity distance at ``Z_COSMO`` under our fiducial
   cosmology.

``DIST_METHOD`` records the specific technique behind the adopted value.
For any adopted distance with no reported uncertainty, we assign a 15%
fractional floor rather than ``DIST_IVAR = 0``.

.. note::

   Gold-tier method abbreviations, in priority order, with their
   typical distance-modulus uncertainty (mag) inferred from the values
   compiled in NED:

   .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 20 55 25

      * - Method
        - Full name
        - Typical uncertainty
      * - ``Cepheids``
        - Cepheid variable stars
        - 0.08 mag
      * - ``TRGB``
        - Tip of the Red Giant Branch
        - 0.10 mag
      * - ``PNLF``
        - Planetary Nebula Luminosity Function
        - 0.13 mag
      * - ``SBF``
        - Surface Brightness Fluctuations
        - 0.15 mag
      * - ``SNIa``
        - Type Ia supernovae
        - 0.16 mag
      * - ``SNII``
        - Type II supernovae (optical)
        - 0.16 mag
      * - ``GCLF``
        - Globular Cluster Luminosity Function
        - 0.17 mag
      * - ``SNIa SDSS``
        - Type Ia supernovae, SDSS-II Supernova Survey
        - 0.26 mag

**Sentinel conventions**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Column type
     - Sentinel / missing value
   * - Redshifts and their IVARs (``Z``, ``Z_IVAR``, etc.)
     - 0 — use the paired ``*_IVAR > 0`` column to test for a valid measurement
   * - Distances and their IVARs (``DIST``, ``DIST_IVAR``, etc.)
     - 0 — same convention as redshifts
   * - Other float columns
     - −1 (strictly negative, unphysical for distances and separations)
   * - Integer IDs (``TARGETID_DESI``, etc.)
     - −1
   * - String columns
     - blank (empty string)

.. _bitmasks:

Bitmasks
--------

``SAMPLE``
~~~~~~~~~~

We set ``SAMPLE`` in the parent catalog and propagate it to the merged
catalogs. We may set multiple bits on a source simultaneously.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 18 8 74

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``LVD``
     - 1
     - Source from the Local Volume Database of nearby galaxies
   * - ``MCLOUDS``
     - 2
     - Located within the Magellanic Cloud footprint
   * - ``GCLPNE``
     - 4
     - Located within a globular cluster or planetary nebula mask
   * - ``NEARSTAR``
     - 8
     - Near a bright star (star–galaxy separation < 1.2 × Gaia/Tycho mask)
   * - ``INSTAR``
     - 16
     - Inside a bright star (star–galaxy separation < 0.5 × Gaia/Tycho mask)
   * - ``OVERLAP``
     - 32
     - Initial ellipse overlaps another (initial) SGA ellipse

``ELLIPSEMODE`` — input fitting flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We request this before processing; it describes the intended fitting strategy.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 8 72

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``FIXGEO``
     - 1
     - Fix the ellipse geometry to initial values (no free fitting)
   * - ``RESOLVED``
     - 2
     - Milky Way satellite (effectively resolved into stars); Tractor fitting not performed
   * - ``FORCEPSF``
     - 4
     - Force all Tractor sources to be PSF
   * - ``FORCEGAIA``
     - 8
     - Force Tractor to only fit Gaia sources (not used)
   * - ``LESSMASKING``
     - 16
     - Apply less aggressive masking during ellipse-fitting
   * - ``MOREMASKING``
     - 32
     - Apply more aggressive masking during ellipse-fitting
   * - ``MOMENTPOS``
     - 64
     - Use moment-based position instead of Tractor position
   * - ``TRACTORGEO``
     - 128
     - Adopt Tractor geometry instead of ellipse-fit geometry
   * - ``NORADWEIGHT``
     - 256
     - Disable radial weighting in when determining light-weighted geometry

``ELLIPSEBIT`` — output fitting and quality flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We set this after processing; it records the actual fitting outcome and data quality.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 22 8 70

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``NOTRACTOR``
     - 1
     - No Tractor model (dropped or never fitted)
   * - ``TRACTORPSF``
     - 2
     - Tractor fit this source as a point source (PSF model)
   * - ``FIXGEO``
     - 4
     - Ellipse geometry was fixed, not freely fitted
   * - ``BLENDED``
     - 8
     - Source center is within the ellipse of another SGA source
   * - ``LARGESHIFT``
     - 16
     - Large positional shift between initial and fitted ellipse center
   * - ``LARGESHIFT_TRACTOR``
     - 32
     - Large positional shift between initial and Tractor center
   * - ``MAJORGAL``
     - 64
     - Major galaxy requiring special processing treatment
   * - ``OVERLAP``
     - 128
     - Fitted ellipse overlaps another SGA ellipse
   * - ``SATELLITE``
     - 256
     - Satellite galaxy located within the ellipse of a larger system
   * - ``MOMENTPOS``
     - 512
     - Moment-based position was adopted
   * - ``TRACTORGEO``
     - 1024
     - Tractor geometry was adopted
   * - ``NORADWEIGHT``
     - 2048
     - Radial weighting was not applied to isophote fitting
   * - ``LESSMASKING``
     - 4096
     - Less aggressive neighbor masking was applied
   * - ``MOREMASKING``
     - 8192
     - More aggressive neighbor masking was applied
   * - ``FAILGEO``
     - 16384
     - Isophote fitting failed; D26 may be unreliable
   * - ``SKIPTRACTOR``
     - 32768
     - Tractor fitting was skipped entirely for this mosaic

``NED_FLAG`` — NED cross-match quality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Records how we resolved the NED cross-match for each galaxy. The byname
query searches NED by galaxy name; the bypos query searches by sky position.
We may set multiple bits simultaneously. ``NED_FLAG`` covers cross-match
resolution only; see ``NED_Z_FLAG`` below for how NED's own redshift was
resolved, and :ref:`redshifts` for how that feeds into ``Z_FLAG``.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 22 8 70

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``LARGE_SEP``
     - 1
     - Byname positional offset exceeds threshold (3.5 arcsec); bypos result
       used instead
   * - ``BYNAME_FAIL``
     - 2
     - Byname query returned an error or no match; bypos result used instead
   * - ``BYPOS_FAIL``
     - 4
     - Bypos query also failed; NED cross-match result may be incomplete

.. note::

   `LVD <https://local-volume-database.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_
   galaxies are exempt from the ``LARGE_SEP`` flag: their NED coordinates
   can legitimately differ from the SGA centroid (extended dwarfs), so we
   always accept a successful byname match regardless of positional offset.

``NED_Z_FLAG`` — NED redshift resolution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Records how we arrived at NED's own default redshift, ``Z_NED``, for each
galaxy (see :ref:`redshifts`). We may set multiple bits simultaneously.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 22 8 70

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``Z_SUSPECT``
     - 1
     - Adopted ``Z_NED`` exceeded the redshift-override threshold (0.4 by
       default); alternative NED redshift measurements were considered
   * - ``Z_UNRESOLVED``
     - 2
     - ``Z_SUSPECT`` or ``Z_MISSING`` was set but no confident replacement
       redshift was found (disagreeing alternatives, or none below
       threshold); the adopted ``Z_NED`` should be treated with caution
   * - ``Z_MISSING``
     - 4
     - NED's own default redshift was missing entirely; ``Z_NED`` was
       adopted from NED's full list of redshift measurements instead
   * - ``Z_CENSORED_PHOTOZ``
     - 8
     - Adopted default was a photometric-redshift measurement (Bilicki
       et al. 2014 2MASS Photo-z catalog); discarded, alternates considered
   * - ``Z_CENSORED_SDSS``
     - 16
     - Adopted default came from an SDSS-compilation reference; discarded
       in favor of the direct SDSS DR17 match (see :ref:`redshifts`)

``Z_FLAG`` — redshift quality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Records how we resolved the adopted, catalog-wide redshift (``Z``) across
all sources — distinct from ``NED_Z_FLAG``, which only describes NED's own
internal resolution.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 22 8 70

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``DISCREPANCY``
     - 1
     - Any two measured redshifts (LVD, DESI, SDSS, NED) differ by more
       than 1000 km/s in the rest frame. Deliberately sensitive -- a coarse
       NED redshift can exceed this against a precise DESI/SDSS
       spectrum that is otherwise fine, so this bit alone does not imply
       the adopted redshift is wrong
   * - ``NED_SUSPECT``
     - 2
     - NED is the sole redshift measurement (no LVD, DESI, or SDSS value)
       and its ``NED_Z_FLAG`` has ``Z_SUSPECT`` set
   * - ``NED_UNRESOLVED``
     - 4
     - As ``NED_SUSPECT``, and its ``NED_Z_FLAG`` also has ``Z_UNRESOLVED``
       set: no confident replacement redshift was found, so the adopted
       redshift may still be wrong
   * - ``NED_MISSING``
     - 8
     - NED is the sole redshift measurement (no LVD, DESI, or SDSS value)
       and its ``NED_Z_FLAG`` has ``Z_MISSING`` set: NED had no default
       redshift, so the adopted value came from NED's full redshift list
   * - ``CONSENSUS_OVERRIDE``
     - 16
     - DESI disagreed with SDSS and NED, which agreed with each other; we
       replaced the adopted redshift with SDSS's
   * - ``AUTO_NED_OVERRIDE``
     - 32
     - Adopted DESI/SDSS redshift exceeded 0.3, so we automatically
       replaced it with an independent NED measurement
   * - ``NED_CENSORED_PHOTOZ``
     - 64
     - As ``NED_SUSPECT``, and its ``NED_Z_FLAG`` has ``Z_CENSORED_PHOTOZ``
       set: NED's default was a discarded photometric-redshift measurement
   * - ``NED_CENSORED_SDSS``
     - 128
     - As ``NED_SUSPECT``, and its ``NED_Z_FLAG`` has ``Z_CENSORED_SDSS``
       set: NED's default was a discarded SDSS-compilation reference
   * - ``VI_REVIEWED``
     - 256
     - A manual visual-inspection pass set or confirmed the adopted
       redshift; the final, human-authoritative bit

``OPTMASKBITS``, ``GALEXMASKBITS``, ``UNWISEMASKBITS``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We store per-band imaging mask bits in the per-group ``-maskbits.fits[.fz]``
files and the per-galaxy ``-ellipse-{dataset}.fits`` files. All three share
the same low-order bits:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 8 72

   * - Bit name
     - Value
     - Description
   * - ``brightstar``
     - 1
     - Bright star, medium star, or star cluster (legacypipe MASKBITS)
   * - ``gaiastar``
     - 2
     - Gaia point source (type = PSF)
   * - ``galaxy``
     - 4
     - Extended (non-reference) source
   * - ``reference``
     - 8
     - SGA reference source

Per-band bits:

- ``OPTMASKBITS``: ``g`` = 16, ``r`` = 32, ``i`` = 64, ``z`` = 128
- ``GALEXMASKBITS``: ``FUV`` = 16, ``NUV`` = 32
- ``UNWISEMASKBITS``: ``W1`` = 16, ``W2`` = 32, ``W3`` = 64, ``W4`` = 128

.. _per-group-files:

Per-Group Data Files
--------------------

Directory Layout
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We organize the public data release as:

.. code-block:: none

   data/
     {region}/                  # dr11-south or dr11-north
       {raslice}/               # 3-digit integer part of GROUP_RA (000–359)
         {group_name}/          # e.g. 00000m0649
           SGA2025_{group_name}-*

The ``raslice`` is the zero-padded integer part of ``GROUP_RA``
(e.g. RA = 33.98° → ``033``). The ``group_name`` is the bare
``GROUP_NAME`` column value.

To construct the path to a group directory in Python:

.. code-block:: python

   import os

   datadir = '/path/to/data'   # local copy of the data release
   region  = 'dr11-south'      # or 'dr11-north'

   for row in cat:
       raslice   = f'{int(row["GROUP_RA"]):03d}'
       group_name = row['GROUP_NAME'].strip()
       galaxydir  = os.path.join(datadir, region, raslice, group_name)
       prefix     = f'SGA2025_{group_name}'

File Inventory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We prefix all files in a group directory with ``g = SGA2025_{group_name}``.

Two processing modes exist. **Full mode** applies to groups where we
performed Tractor source fitting (the file ``{g}-tractor.fits`` is present).
**Coadds-only mode** applies to groups where we produced only image mosaics
(no Tractor fitting).

*Files present in both modes:*

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 38 62

   * - File
     - Description
   * - ``{g}-sample.fits``
     - Parent-catalog rows for this group
   * - ``{g}-ccds.fits``
     - Metadata for all CCDs overlapping this mosaic
   * - ``{g}-coadds.isdone``
     - Sentinel file written when coadd step completes
   * - ``{g}-ellipse.isdone``
     - Sentinel file written when ellipse step completes
   * - ``{g}-coadds.log``
     - Coadd processing log
   * - ``{g}-ellipse.log``
     - Ellipse processing log
   * - ``{g}-image.jpg``
     - Optical grz color composite
   * - ``{g}-image-W1W2.jpg``
     - unWISE W1/W2 color composite
   * - ``{g}-image-FUVNUV.jpg``
     - GALEX FUV/NUV color composite

*Full mode only:*

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 38 62

   * - File
     - Description
   * - ``{g}-tractor.fits``
     - Tractor source catalog for this mosaic
   * - ``{g}-maskbits.fits.fz``
     - Imaging mask-bit array (compressed)
   * - ``{g}-image-{band}.fits.fz``
     - Image mosaic per band (compressed); bands = g, r, i, z, FUV, NUV, W1–W4
   * - ``{g}-invvar-{band}.fits.fz``
     - Inverse-variance map per band (compressed)
   * - ``{g}-model-{band}.fits.fz``
     - Tractor model image per band (compressed)
   * - ``{g}-psf-{band}.fits.fz``
     - PSF image per band (compressed)
   * - ``{g}-model.jpg``
     - Optical grz Tractor model composite
   * - ``{g}-model-W1W2.jpg``
     - unWISE W1/W2 Tractor model composite
   * - ``{g}-model-FUVNUV.jpg``
     - GALEX FUV/NUV Tractor model composite
   * - ``{g}-resid.jpg``
     - Optical grz residual (image − model)
   * - ``{g}-resid-W1W2.jpg``
     - unWISE W1/W2 residual
   * - ``{g}-resid-FUVNUV.jpg``
     - GALEX FUV/NUV residual

*Coadds-only mode only:*

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 38 62

   * - File
     - Description
   * - ``{g}-maskbits.fits``
     - Imaging mask-bit array (uncompressed)
   * - ``{g}-image-{band}.fits``
     - Image mosaic per band (uncompressed); at least one of g, r, i, z
       plus FUV, NUV, W1–W4

Per-Galaxy Ellipse Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to the per-group files, each galaxy within a group has up to
three per-galaxy ellipse files named after the galaxy's IAU coordinate
name (without spaces):

.. code-block:: none

   SGA2025_J{RA}[+|-]{DEC}-ellipse-griz.fits
   SGA2025_J{RA}[+|-]{DEC}-ellipse-galex.fits
   SGA2025_J{RA}[+|-]{DEC}-ellipse-unwise.fits

Each file contains four FITS extensions:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 18 82

   * - Extension
     - Description
   * - ``MODELS``
     - Image cube of the ellipse model and data for each band
   * - ``MASKBITS``
     - Per-band imaging mask array (same footprint as ``MODELS``)
   * - ``ELLIPSE``
     - Ellipse photometry table (one row per ellipse semi-major axis step)
   * - ``SBPROFILES``
     - Azimuthally averaged surface-brightness and color profiles

.. _release-history:

Release History
---------------

v1.0 (August 2026)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First public release.
