.. title: Siena Galaxy Atlas 2020
.. slug: sga2020
.. tags: mathjax
.. description:

.. |deg|    unicode:: U+000B0 .. DEGREE SIGN
.. |Prime|    unicode:: U+02033 .. DOUBLE PRIME

.. class:: pull-right well

.. contents::

*Primary contacts:* `John Moustakas (Siena College)`_ and `Dustin Lang (Perimeter Institute)`_.

.. _`John Moustakas (Siena College)`: ../../contact/#other-experts
.. _`Dustin Lang (Perimeter Institute)`: ../../contact/#other-experts

`Data Portal`_
==============

The SGA-2020 data products can be browsed and downloaded at the `SGA
web-portal`_, both for individual galaxies and the full sample. Below, we
describe the data model for these data products. A forthcoming paper (Moustakas,
Lang, et al., in preparation) will describe the SGA-2020 in detail.

Overview
========

The Siena Galaxy Atlas (SGA) is a multiwavelength atlas of approximately 385,000
nearby galaxies selected based on their apparent angular diameter.

These galaxies are intrinsically large enough to be spatially resolved from our
vantage point in the universe, providing a unique and powerful window into the
fossil record of galaxy formation and evolution and the galaxy-halo
connection. In addition, the atlas serves as a valuable angular map of the
foreground extragalactic sky for cosmological surveys of distant galaxies like
the `Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI)`_ survey.

The SGA delivers precise coordinates, multiwavelength mosaics, azimuthally
averaged optical surface brightness and color profiles, integrated and aperture
photometry, model images and photometry, and additional metadata for the full
sample. The primary sample relies on deep, wide-field *grz* imaging from the
`DESI Legacy Imaging Surveys DR9`_ as well as all-sky infrared imaging at 3.4-22
microns from `unWISE`_.

The 2020 version of the atlas, SGA-2020, is primarily selected from the
`Hyperleda extragalactic database`_ of *known* large angular-diameter galaxies,
although future versions of the atlas will be supplemented with galaxies
identified from the `DR9`_ imaging itself, which will mitigate the heterogeneity
and surface brightness incompleteness of the parent sample.

Coupled with existing and forthcoming optical spectroscopy from `DESI`_,
particularly the Bright Galaxy Survey (BGS) of 10 million galaxies brigher than
:math:`r=20`, the SGA-2020 will yield important new insights into the star
formation and mass assembly histories of galaxies, enable a myriad complementary
studies of the nearby and distant universe, and help engage the broader public
in astronomy with visually striking color imaging of large, well-resolved,
nearby galaxies.

Reporting Issues
================

We welcome questions and feedback from users, as well as requests for additional
data products through the ticket system at

- https://github.com/moustakas/SGA/issues

We also acknowledge that all the code used to select, build, and analyze the
catalog is open source and publicly available:

- https://github.com/moustakas/SGA
- https://github.com/moustakas/legacyhalos
- https://github.com/legacysurvey/legacypipe

Sample Selection
================

In this section we briefly describe the construction of the parent SGA-2020 sample.

Hyperleda Catalog
-----------------

To construct the initial galaxy catalog, we queried the `Hyperleda extragalactic
database`_ for galaxies with angular diameter :math:`D(25)>0.2` arcmin, where
:math:`D(25)` is the diameter at the :math:`25\ \mathrm{mag\ arcsec}^{-2}`
surface brightness isophote (in the optical, typically the `B`-band), a
traditional measure of the "size" of the galaxy popularized by the `Third
Reference Catalog of Bright Galaxies (RC3)`_.

We executed the following query on the 2018 November 14 version of the
`Hyperleda`_ database, resulting in a catalog of 1,436,176 galaxies:

.. code-block:: sql
                
   WITH
   "R50" AS (
     SELECT pgc, avg(lax) AS lax, avg(sax) AS sax
     FROM rawdia
     WHERE quality=0 and dcode=5 and band between 4400 and 4499 GROUP BY pgc
   ),
   "IR" AS (
     SELECT pgc, avg(lax) AS lax, avg(sax) AS sax
     FROM rawdia
     WHERE quality=0 and iref in (27129) and dcode=7 and band=0 GROUP BY pgc
   )
   
   SELECT
     m.pgc, m.objname, m.objtype, m.al2000, m.de2000, m.type, m.bar, m.ring, m.multiple, m.compactness, m.t, 
     m.logd25, m.logr25, m.pa, m.bt, m.it, m.kt, m.v, m.modbest, "R50".lax, "R50".sax, "IR".lax, "IR".sax,
   FROM
     m000 AS m
     LEFT JOIN "R50" USING (pgc)
     LEFT JOIN "IR" USING (pgc)
   WHERE
     objtype='G' and (m.logd25>0.2 or "R50".lax>0.2 or "IR".lax>0.2)


Based on a large number of visual inspections and both quantitative and
qualitative tests, we culled the resulting sample by applying the following
additional cuts:

1. We limited the sample to :math:`0.333<D(25)<180` arcmin, which removed
   roughly 900,000 galaxies (approximately 65% of the original sample),
   including the Magellanic Clouds and the Sagittarius Dwarf Galaxy at the
   large-diameter end. We implemented the :math:`D(25)<20` arcsec cut because
   we found that the fraction of spurious sources (or sources with incorrect
   diameters) increased rapidly below this diameter; moreover, galaxies smaller
   than this size are modeled reasonably well as part of the standard *Tractor*
   pipeline (see `Tractor implementation details`_).
  
..  
  

2. We removed approximately 3800 galaxies with no magnitude estimate in
   `Hyperleda`_, galaxies which we found to be largely spurious based on visual
   inspection.
  
..  
  

3. We removed an additional roughly 6500 spurious sources (or galaxies with
   significantly overestimated diameters) based on visual inspection.
  
..  
  

4. Finally, we rejected approximately 1700 galaxies whose primary galaxy
   identifier (in `Hyperleda`_) was from either SDSS or 2MASS and whose central
   coordinates placed it *inside* the elliptical aperture of *another* (non-SDSS
   and non-2MASS) galaxy with diameter greater than 0.5 arcmin. Based on visual
   inspection, we found that many of these sources were due to shredding or were
   spurious sources with grossly over-estimated diameters.

In addition, we visually inspected all galaxies in the sample with
:math:`D(25)>0.75` arcmin, including all the NGC/IC galaxies, and assessed their
published elliptical geometry and coordinates. Where necessary, we updated the
diameter, position angle, minor-to-major axis ratio, and, in some cases, central
coordinates "by hand", as indicated in the ``BYHAND`` column described in the
data model below. The `NASA Extragalactic Database (NED)`_ proved invaluable for
these cross-checks.

Supplemental Catalogs
---------------------

To improve the completeness of the `Hyperleda`_ catalog, we supplemented the
sample with several additional catalogs:

1. We added the sample of Local Group Dwarf Galaxies from `McConnachie (2012)`_,
   making sure to account for any systems already in the `Hyperleda`_
   catalog. Using visual inspection, we determined that approximately half these
   systems were too unresolved to be part of the SGA-2020 (e.g., Ursa Minor),
   and so we removed them from the sample.
  
..  
  

2. Next, we identified the sample of galaxies in the `RC3`_ and `OpenNGC`_
   catalogs which were missing from the `Hyperleda`_ sample. Surprisingly, many
   of these systems are large and have high average surface brightness.
  
..  
  

3. Finally, we used the `DR8`_ photometric catalogs to identify additional
   large-diameter galaxies. This supplemental catalog consists of two
   subsamples:
   
   a. First, after applying a variety of catalog-level quality cuts (and
      extensive visual inspection), we identified all objects in `DR8`_ with
      half-light radii :math:`r(50)>14` arcsec based on their *Tractor* model
      fits;
 
   b. And second, we constructed a candidate sample of compact galaxies which
      would otherwise be forced to be point sources in `DR9`_ based on their Gaia
      catalog properties (see `this notebook`_ for details).

Group Catalog
-------------

Galaxies which are close to one another (in apparent, angular coordinates) must
be analyzed jointly. Consequently, we built a simple group catalog using a
friends-of-friends algorithm and a 10 arcmin linking length, taking care to
ensure that galaxies which overlap (within two times their circularized
:math:`D(25)` diameter) were assigned to the same group.

Using this procedure, we identified approximately 515,000 unique groups, of
which roughly 93% have just one member. Among the remaining 7% of groups,
approximately 15,000 groups have two members, 1700 groups have 3-5 members, 50
groups have 6-10 members, and just four groups have 10 or more galaxies,
including the center of the Coma Cluster.

..
  We also identify galaxies lying within and outside the Legacy Surveys imaging
  footprint.

Final Parent Sample
-------------------

The final parent sample contains 531,677 galaxies approximately limited to
:math:`D(25)>20` arcsec, spanning a wide range of magnitude and mean surface
brightness. Of these, 383,568 have *grz* imaging from `DR9`_.

..
  Note that because of the supplemental catalogs, this sample includes a small
  fraction of sources with `D(25)<20 arcsec`; however we retain these galaxies
  in the parent sample because some of them are historically important NGC/IC
  galaxies.

Custom Mosaics & Ellipse-Fitting
================================

We analyze every galaxy group in the parent SGA-2020 catalog independently
(noting that the pipeline is MPI-parallelized, and so it scales reasonably
well). In the following two sections (`Custom Mosaics`_ and `Ellipse-Fitting`_)
we describe our procedure in more detail.

Information regarding the resulting data products and their organization on-disk
can be found in the `Data Products`_ section.

Custom Mosaics
--------------

We run the `DR9`_ pipeline on a "custom brick" based on the estimated center and
diameter of the galaxy group (using ``GROUP_RA``, ``GROUP_DEC``, and
``GROUP_DIAMETER`` defined in `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_). Specifically, we generate
mosaics according to the following criteria:

* For groups with ``GROUP_DIAMETER``:math:`\,<14` arcmin we use a mosaic diameter
  of :math:`3\, \times` ``GROUP_DIAMETER``;
* For groups with :math:`14\,<` ``GROUP_DIAMETER``:math:`\,<30` arcmin we use a
  mosaic diameter of :math:`2\, \times` ``GROUP_DIAMETER``;
* And for groups with ``GROUP_DIAMETER``:math:`\,>30` arcmin (which only affects
  ``NGC0598_GROUP``) we use a mosaic diameter of :math:`1.4\, \times`
  ``GROUP_DIAMETER``.

In all cases, for the *grz* imaging we adopt a fixed pixel scale of 0.262
arcsec/pixel and for the unWISE mosaics we use 2.75 arcsec/pixel.

Unlike in `DR9`_, we use a couple different options when calling the
`legacypipe`_ photometric pipeline:

* First, we invoke the ``--fit-on-coadds`` option, which triggers the following
  specialized behavior:
  
  * After reading the individual, sky-subtracted CCD images and rejecting
    outlier pixels, we rescale the inverse variance weights in order to
    downweight the bright central region of the galaxy (even more than from
    Poisson noise). This change was implemented in order to prevent *Tractor*
    from fitting the central part of the (typically large, high-surface
    brightness) galaxy at the expense of the outer envelope;
  * We generate and write out inverse-variance weighted pixelized PSFs for each
    of the *g-, *r*, and *z* bandpasses based on all the available input
    imaging;
  * We turn off the default behavior of only fitting point sources to objects
    detected within the elliptical mask of each SGA large galaxy;
  * And finally, we continue with source detection and model fitting *on the
    coadded images*, unlike in the normal pipeline (in which source detection
    and model fitting are run on the individual CCDs).
    
..  
  

* Second, we increase the threshold for detecting and deblending sources by
  specifying ``--saddle-fraction 0.2`` (the default value is ``0.1``) and
  ``--saddle-min 4.0`` (versus the default ``2.0``). These parameters control
  the fractional peak height for identifying new sources around existing
  sources, and the minimum required saddle point depth (in units of the standard
  deviation of pixel values above the noise) from existing sources down to new
  sources, respectively. We find these options necessary in order to prevent
  excessive shredding and overfitting of the "resolved" galactic structure in
  individual galaxies (e.g., HII regions).

Ellipse-Fitting
---------------

We measure the multi-band surface brightness profiles of each galaxy in the
SGA using the ellipse-fitting tools in the `astropy`_-affiliated package
`photutils`_. Once again, we analyze each galaxy group independently and use MPI
parallelization to process the full sample.

Specifically, we carry out the following steps for each galaxy group:

1. We begin by reading the ``GROUP_NAME-largegalaxy-tractor.fits`` and
   ``GROUP_NAME-largegalaxy-sample.fits`` catalogs for each group (see the
   `Images and Catalogs`_ section) and reject the following sources from the
   subsequent ellipse-fitting step, if any:
   
   * objects missing from the *Tractor* catalog (i.e., they were dropped during
     *Tractor* modeling);
   * objects with negative *r*-band flux or objects fit by *Tractor* as type
     ``PSF``;
   * galaxies fit as *Tractor* type ``REX`` which have a measured half-light
     radius ``shape_r`` :math:`<5` arcsec`;
   * galaxies fit as *Tractor* types ``EXP``, ``DEV``, or ``SER`` which have a
     measured half-light radius ``shape_r`` :math:`<2` arcsec`;

   The first two criteria identify spurious sources in the initial parent
   catalog or objects with grossly over-estimated diameters, and all these
   objects already have been removed from the `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ catalog.

   The second two criteria identify galaxies which are too small to benefit from
   ellipse-fitting, i.e., they are well-fit by the standard photometric pipeline
   and have been deemed to not require special handling. These sources will
   likely be removed from future versions of the SGA.

2. Next, we read the *grz* images and corresponding inverse variance and model
   images. Here and throughout our analysis we use the *r*-band image as the
   "reference band." We also read the ``GROUP_NAME-largegalaxy-maskbits.fits``
   image (see `Images and Catalogs`_) but only retain the ``BRIGHT``,
   ``MEDIUM``, ``CLUSTER``, ``ALLMASK_G``, ``ALLMASK_R``, and ``ALLMASK_Z`` bits
   (defined in the `DR9 bitmasks`_ page). Hereafter, we refer to this mask as
   the ``starmask``.

   With these data in hand, we carry out the following steps:
   
   * First, we build a ``residual_mask`` which accounts for statistically
     significant differences between the data and the *Tractor* models. In
     detail, we flag all pixels which deviate by more than math:`5-sigma` (in
     *any* bandpass) from the absolute value of the Gaussian-smoothed residual
     image, which we construct by subtracting the model image from the data and
     smoothing with a `2-pixel` Gaussian kernel. This step obviously masks all
     sources *including* the galaxy of interest, but we restore those pixels in
     the next step. In addition, we iteratively dilate the mask two times and we
     also mask pixels along the border of the mosaic with a border equal to 2%
     the size of the mosaic.
    
   ..  
  
    
   * Next, we iterate on each galaxy in the group from brightest to faintest
     based on its *r*-band flux (from *Tractor*). For each galaxy, we construct
     the model image from all the *Tractor* sources in the field *except the
     galaxy of interest*, and subtract this model image from the data. 

     We then measure the mean elliptical geometry of the galaxy based on the
     second moment of the light distribution using a modified version of
     `Michele Cappellari's mge.find_galaxy`_ algorithm (hereafter, the ``ellipse
     moments``). When computing the ``ellipse moments``, we only use pixels with
     surface brightness :math:`>27\ \mathrm{mag\ arcsec}^{-2}` and we
     median-filter the image with a `3-pixel` boxcar to smooth out any
     small-scale galactic structure.

     Finally, we combine the ``residual_mask`` with the ``starmask`` (using
     Boolean logic), but *unmask* pixels belonging to the galaxy based on the
     ``ellipse moments`` geometry, but using 1.5 times the estimated semi-major
     axis of the galaxy.
    
   ..  
  
    
   * The preceding algorithm fails in fields containing more than one galaxy if
     the central coordinates of one of the galaxies is masked by a previous
     (brighter) system. (We consider a source to be impacted if *any* pixels in
     a `5-pixel` diameter box centered on the *Tractor* position of the galaxy
     are masked.) In this case, we iteratively *shrink* the elliptical mask of
     any of the previous galaxies until the central position of the current
     galaxy is unmasked.

     Note that this algorithm is not perfect, particularly in crowded fields
     (e.g., the center of the Coma Cluster), but will be improved in future
     versions of the SGA.
    
   ..  
  
    
   * Another occasional failure mode is if the flux-weighted position of the
     galaxy based on the ``ellipse moments`` differs by the *Tractor* position
     by more than `10 pixels`, which can happen in crowded fields and near
     bright stars and unmasked image artifacts. In this case we revert to using
     the *Tractor* coordinates and model geometry and record this occurence in
     the ``largeshift`` bit (see the `SGA Bitmasks`_ page). 
    
   ..  
  
     
   * Finally, we convert the images to surface brightness in 
     :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies\ arcsec}^{-2}` and the weight maps to variance
     images in :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies}^2\ \mathrm{arcsec}^{-4}`.

3. With the images and individual masks for each galaxy in hand, we can now
   measure the multi-band surface-brightness profiles of each galaxy. We assume
   a fixed elliptical geometry based on the ``ellipse moments`` previously
   measured, and robustly determine the surface brightness along the elliptical
   path from the central pixel to two times the estimated semi-major axis of the
   galaxy (based on the ``ellipse moments``), in `1-pixel` (0.262 arcsec)
   intervals.

   In detail, we measure the surface brightness (and the uncertainty) using
   *nclip=3*, *sclip=3*, and *integrmode=median*, i.e., two sigma-clipping
   iterations, a :math:`3\sigma` clipping threshold, and *median* area
   integration, respectively, as documented in the
   `photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image`_ method.

   From the *r*-band surface brightness profile, we also robustly measure the
   size of the galaxy at the following surface brightness thresholds: 22, 22.5,
   23, 23.5, 24, 24.5, 25, 25.5, and :math:`26\ \mathrm{mag\ arcsec}^{-2}` . We
   perform this measurement by fitting a linear model to the surface brightness
   profile converted to :math:`\mathrm{mag\ arcsec}^{-2}` vs :math:`r^{0.25}`
   (which would be a straight line for a de Vaucouleurs galaxy profile), but
   only consider measurements which are within :math:`\pm1\ \mathrm{mag\
   arcsec}^{-2}` of the desired surface brightness threshold. To estimate the
   uncertainty in this radius we generate Monte Carlo realizations of the
   surface brightness profile and use the standard deviation of the resulting
   distribution of radii.

   Finally, we also measure the curve-of-growth in each bandpass using the tools
   in `photutils.aperture`_. Briefly, we integrate the image and variance image
   in each bandpass using elliptical apertures from the center of the galaxy to
   two times its estimated semi-major axis (based on the ``ellipse moments``,
   again, in 1-pixel or 0.262 arcsec intervals).

   We fit the curve-of-growth, :math:`m(r)` using the following empirical model
   (taken from `Observational Astronomy by Birney, Gonzalez, & Oesper`_):

   .. math::
                   
      m(r) = m_{1} + m_{0} \left\{1-\exp\left[ -\alpha_{1} \left(\frac{r}{r_{0}}\right)^{-\alpha_{2}} \right]\right\}

   where :math:`m_{1}`, :math:`m_{0}`, :math:`\alpha_{1}`, :math:`\alpha_{2}`,
   and :math:`r_{0}` are constant parameters of the model and *r* is the
   semi-major axis in arcsec. In our analysis we take the radius scale factor
   :math:`r_{0}=10` arcsec to be fixed.

   Note that in the limit :math:`r\rightarrow\infty`, :math:`m_{1}` is the
   total, integrated magnitude, and as :math:`r\rightarrow0`,
   :math:`m_{0}+m_{1}` is the brightness at the center of the galaxy.

   Finally, we package all the measurements, one per galaxy, into an
   `astropy.QTable`_ table (including units on all the quantities), and write
   out the results (as documented in the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section).

Data Products
=============

We divide the SGA-2020 into two non-overlapping samples and define the data
model for each catalog below.

SGA-2020-ls.fits
----------------

`SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ contains 383,568 galaxies with three-band (*grz*) imaging
from `DR9`_, spanning approximately 20,000 square degrees (see the `Contents of
DR9`_ page for a more precise area). (Here, the suffix *ls* means "Legacy
Surveys" imaging.)

For these systems we are able to generate multiband mosaics and measure their
surface-brightness and color profiles using standard ellipse-fitting techniques
(except as indicated by the ``ELLIPSEBIT`` bitmask, defined below).

The multi-band mosaics, detailed ellipse-fitting results, *Tractor* catalogs,
and other data products corresponding to each galaxy group in the SGA-2020 are
documented in the `Group Files`_ section.  .

====== ======== ======== ======================
Number EXTNAME  Type     Contents
====== ======== ======== ======================
HDU00  PRIMARY  IMAGE    Empty.
HDU01  ELLIPSE_ BINTABLE Ellipse-fitting results.
HDU02  TRACTOR_ BINTABLE *Tractor* modeling results.
====== ======== ======== ======================

ELLIPSE
~~~~~~~

========================================================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================
Name                                                       Type         Units                                       Description
========================================================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================
``SGA_ID``                                                 int64                                                    Unique integer identifier.
``SGA_GALAXY``                                             char16                                                   SGA galaxy name, constructed as "SGA-2020 ``SGA_ID``".
``GALAXY``                                                 char[29]                                                 Unique galaxy name.
``PGC``                                                    int64                                                    Unique identifier from the `Principal Catalogue of Galaxies`_ (-1 if none or not known).
``RA_LEDA``                                                float64      degree                                      Right ascension (J2000) from the reference indicated in ``REF`` (but see also the ``BYHAND`` column).
``DEC_LEDA``                                               float64      degree                                      Declination (J2000) from the reference indicated in ``REF`` (but see also the ``BYHAND`` column).
``MORPHTYPE``                                              char[21]                                                 Visual morphological type from `Hyperleda`_ (if available).
``PA_LEDA``                                                float32      degree                                      Galaxy position angle, measured positive clockwise from North, taken from the reference indicated in ``REF`` (but see also the ``BYHAND`` column).
``D25_LEDA``                                               float32      arcmin                                      Approximate diameter at the :math:`25\ \mathrm{mag}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` (optical) surface brightness isophote, taken from the reference indicated in ``REF`` (but see also the ``BYHAND`` column).
``BA_LEDA``                                                float32                                                  Ratio of the semi-minor axis to the semi-major axis, taken from the reference indicated in ``REF`` (but see also the ``BYHAND`` column).
``Z_LEDA``                                                 float32                                                  Heliocentric redshift from `HyperLeda`_. *Note: a missing value, represented with -1.0, does not imply that no redshift exists*.
``SB_D25_LEDA``                                            float32      Vega :math:`\mathrm{mag}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` Mean surface brightness within ``D25_LEDA`` based on the brightness in ``MAG_LEDA``.
``MAG_LEDA``                                               float32      Vega mag                                    Approximate brightness (*Note: this magnitude estimate is heterogeneous in both bandpass and aperture but for most galaxies it is measured in the B-band within* ``D25_LEDA`` *; use with care*.) 
``BYHAND``                                                 Boolean                                                  Flag indicating whether one or more of ``RA_LEDA``, ``DEC_LEDA``, ``D25_LEDA``, ``PA_LEDA``, ``BA_LEDA``, or ``MAG_LEDA`` were changed from their published `HyperLeda`_ values, generally based on visual inspection.
``REF``                                                    char[13]                                                 Unique reference name indicating the original source of the object, as described in `Sample Selection`_: ``LEDA-20181114``, ``LGDWARFS``, ``RC3``, ``OpenNGC``, or ``DR8``.
``GROUP_ID``                                               int64                                                    Unique group identification number.
``GROUP_NAME``                                             char[35]                                                 Unique group name, constructed from the name of its largest member (based on ``D25_LEDA``) and the suffix ``_GROUP`` (e.g., ``PGC193199_GROUP``).
``GROUP_MULT``                                             int16                                                    Group multiplicity (i.e., number of group members from the parent sample).
``GROUP_PRIMARY``                                          Boolean                                                  Flag indicating the primary (i.e., largest) group member.
``GROUP_RA``                                               float64      degree                                      Right ascencion of the group weighted by ``D25_LEDA``.
``GROUP_DEC``                                              float64      degree                                      Declination of the group weighted by ``D25_LEDA``.
``GROUP_DIAMETER``                                         float32      arcmin                                      Approximate group diameter. For groups with a single galaxy this quantity equals ``D25_LEDA``. For galaxies with multiple members, we estimate the diameter of the group as the maximum separation of all the pairs of group members (plus their ``D25_LEDA`` diameter).
``BRICKNAME``                                              char[8]                                                  Name of brick, encoding the brick sky position, e.g. "1126p222" is centered on RA=112.6, Dec=+22.2. 
``DIAM``                                                   float32      arcmin                                      Galaxy semi-major axis diameter measured at the :math:`26\ \mathrm{mag}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2\ r`-band isophote based on ``RADIUS_SB26``. If the *r*-band surface-brightness profile could not be measured at this level, the diameter is set equal to :math:`2.5\times` ``RADIUS_SB25`` or :math:`1.5\times` ``D25_LEDA``, in that order of priority.
``DIAM_REF``                                               char[4]                                                  Reference indicating the origin of the ``DIAM`` measurement: ``SB26``, ``SB25``, or ``LEDA``.
``PA``                                                     float32      degree                                      Galaxy position angle, measured positive clockwise from North, as measured from the ``ellipse moments`` (or equivalent to ``PA_LEDA`` if the ``ellipse moments`` could not be measured).
``BA``                                                     float32                                                  Minor-to-major axis ratio, as measured from the ``ellipse moments`` (or equivalent to ``BA_LEDA`` if the ``ellipse moments`` could not be measured).
``ELLIPSEBIT``                                             int32                                                    See the `SGA Bitmasks`_ documentation.
``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]``          float32      arcsec                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]_ERR``      float32      arcsec                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_MAG_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]``     float32      AB mag                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_MAG_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]_ERR`` float32      AB mag                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_MTOT``                                float32      AB mag                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_M0``                                  float32      AB mag                                      Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_ALPHA1``                              float32                                                  Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_ALPHA2``                              float32                                                  Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_CHI2``                                float32                                                  Taken from the `Ellipse Fits`_ table.
========================================================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================

TRACTOR
~~~~~~~

This binary table is row-matched to the `SGA-LS`_ table in the preceding HDU and
contains all the columns documented in the `DR9 Tractor catalogs`_, supplemented
(for convenience) with ``SGA_ID``. 

Note that all sources in this table have ``REF_CAT=="L3"`` and ``REF_ID`` is
identical to ``SGA_ID``, as described in the `external catalogs documentation`_.

**Document RELEASE declination cuts.**

SGA-2020-nols.fits
------------------

`SGA-2020-nols.fits`_ contains the remaining 148,109 galaxies from the `Final
Parent Sample`_ which lie *off* the `DR9`_ imaging footprint. (Here, the suffix
*nols* means "no Legacy Surveys" imaging.)

Note that a small number of these galaxies are within the boundaries of the
footprint but they lack three-band coverage and therefore they are not analyzed
as part of the SGA-2020; however, they may be added to the SGA at a future date.

====== ============ ======== ======================
Number EXTNAME      Type     Contents
====== ============ ======== ======================
HDU00  PRIMARY      IMAGE    Empty.
HDU01  SGA-NOLS_    BINTABLE Metadata based on the parent catalog.
====== ============ ======== ======================

SGA-NOLS
~~~~~~~~

==================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================
Name                 Type         Units                                       Description
==================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================
``SGA_ID``           int64                                                    See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``SGA_GALAXY``       char16                                                   See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GALAXY``           char[29]                                                 See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``PGC``              int64                                                    See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``RA_LEDA``          float64      degree                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``DEC_LEDA``         float64      degree                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``MORPHTYPE``        char[21]                                                 See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``PA_LEDA``          float32      degree                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``D25_LEDA``         float32      arcmin                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``BA_LEDA``          float32                                                  See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``Z_LEDA``           float32                                                  See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``SB_D25_LEDA``      float32      Vega :math:`\mathrm{mag}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``MAG_LEDA``         float32      Vega mag                                    See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``BYHAND``           Boolean                                                  See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``REF``              char[13]                                                 See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_ID``         int64                                                    See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_NAME``       char[35]                                                 See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_MULT``       int16                                                    See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_PRIMARY``    Boolean                                                  See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_RA``         float64      degree                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_DEC``        float64      degree                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GROUP_DIAMETER``   float32      arcmin                                      See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``BRICKNAME``        char[8]                                                  See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``DROPBIT``          int32                                                    See the `SGA Bitmasks`_ documentation.
==================== ============ =========================================== ===============================================

Group Files
-----------

For each galaxy group in the SGA-2020 (i.e., each row in `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_) we
produce the set of files described in the `Images and Catalogs`_ table and the
`Custom Mosaics & Ellipse-Fitting`_ documentation section.

These files are organized into the directory structure ``RASLICE/GROUP_NAME``,
where ``GROUP_NAME`` is the name of the galaxy group and ``RASLICE``
(``000-359``) is the one-degree wide *slice* of the sky that the object belongs
to. Specifically, in Python:

.. code-block:: python

   RASLICE = '{:06d}'.format(int(GROUP_RA*1000))[:3]
   
Images and Catalogs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The table below documents the nominal set of files produced by the SGA
pipeline. Many of these files are standard `DR9`_ data products (see the `DR9
files documentation`_), although they are based on slightly different inputs
than those used for nominal `DR9`_ processing (see `Custom Mosaics`_ for more
details) and with names which are specific to the SGA.

============================================================================== ================================================
File                                                                           Description
============================================================================== ================================================
**DR9 Pipeline Catalogs**
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
``GROUP_NAME``-ccds-[north,south].fits                                         Input table of ``north`` or ``south`` `CCDs`_ used to generate the optical image stacks.  
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-blobs.fits.gz                                       Enumerated segmentation ("blob") image (see the `metrics`_ documentation); may be removed in future releases.
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-tractor.fits                                        `Tractor catalog`_ of all detected sources in the field.
**DR9 Pipeline Mosaics and Catalogs**                                          
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-maskbits.fits.fz                                    Image encoding the `DR9 bitmasks`_ contributing to each pixel (see also the `DR9 image stacks`_ documentation).
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-outlier-mask.fits.fz                                Image of pixels rejecting during outlier masking (see the `metrics`_ documentation); may be removed in future releases.
``GROUP_NAME``-depth-`[g,r,z]`.fits.fz                                         Image of the :math:`5\sigma` point-source depth at each pixel (see also the `DR9 image stacks`_ documentation).
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-psf-`[g,r,z]`.fits.fz                               Postage stamp of the inverse-variance weighted mean pixelized *grz* PSF at the center of the field (see the `PSF documentation`_ for more details). 
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-`[image,invvar,model]`-`[g,r,z]`.fits.fz            Inverse-variance weighted image, inverse variance image, and *Tractor* model image based on the input *grz* imaging (see the `DR9 image stacks`_ documentation for more details).
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-`[image,model,resid]`-grz.jpg                       JPEG visualization of the data, model, and residual *grz* mosaics.
``GROUP_NAME``-`[image,invvar]`-`[W1,W2,W3,W4]`.fits.fz                        Inverse-variance weighted image and inverse variance image based on the input *W1-W4* imaging (see the `DR9 image stacks`_ documentation for more details). *Note: there is no ``largegalaxy`` prefix because the data used to generate these files is independent of the SGA.*
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-model-`[W1,W2,W3,W4]`.fits.fz                       unWISE *Tractor* model *W1-W4* mosaic based on the forced photometry technique used in `DR9`_. *Note that the ``largegalaxy`` prefix is present because the Tractor models used to generate this image rely on assumptions made specifically for the SGA.*
``GROUP_NAME``-`[image,model`]-W1W2.jpg                                        JPEG visualization of the data and model *W1W2* mosaics.
**SGA Pipeline Files**                                                         
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-sample.fits                                         Catalog of (one or more) galaxies from `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ belonging to this group.
``GROUP_NAME``-largegalaxy-``SGA_ID``-ellipse.fits                             See the `Ellipse Fits`_ data model; note that this file may be missing (for the galaxy of a given ``SGA_ID``) if ellipse-fitting failed or is not carried out (see ``SGA Bitmasks``).
``GROUP_NAME``-coadds.log                                                      Logging output for the *coadds* stage of the pipeline; may be missing in some cases.
``GROUP_NAME``-ellipse.log                                                     Logging output for the *ellipse* stage of the pipeline; may be missing in some cases.
============================================================================== ================================================

Ellipse Fits
~~~~~~~~~~~~

We produce a single FITS table to store the ellipse-fitting results for each
galaxy in the SGA-2020 which could be ellipse-fit (see the
`Ellipse-Fitting`_ documentation for more details).

Many of the ellipse-fitting measurements are taken directly from the
`photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_ attributes, although in many cases the column
names have been renamed for clarity. 

========================================================== ========== ============================================== ===============================================
Name                                                       Type       Units                                          Description
========================================================== ========== ============================================== ===============================================
``SGA_ID``                                                 int64                                                     See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``GALAXY``                                                 char[?]                                                   See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``RA``                                                     float64    degree                                         See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``DEC``                                                    float64    degree                                         See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``PGC``                                                    int64                                                     See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``PA_LEDA``                                                float32    degree                                         See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``BA_LEDA``                                                float32                                                   See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``D25_LEDA``                                               float32    arcmin                                         See `SGA-LS`_ data model.
``BANDS``                                                  char[1][3]                                                List of bandpasses fitted (here, always `g,r,z`).
``REFBAND``                                                char[1]                                                   Reference band (here, always `r`).
``REFPIXSCALE``                                            float32    arcsec/pixel                                   Pixel scale in ``REFBAND``.
``SUCCESS``                                                Boolean                                                   Flag indicating ellipse-fitting success or failure.
``FITGEOMETRY``                                            Boolean                                                   Flag indicating whether the ellipse geometry was allowed to vary with semi-major axis (here, always ``False``).
``INPUT_ELLIPSE``                                          Boolean                                                   Flag indicating whether ellipse parameters were passed from an external file (here, always ``False``).
``LARGESHIFT``                                             Boolean                                                   Flag indicating that the light-weighted center (from the ``ellipse moments``) is different from the *Tractor* position by more than 10 pixels in either dimension, in which case we adopt the *Tractor* model position.
``RA_X0``                                                  float64    degree                                         Right ascension (J2000) at pixel position ``X0``.
``DEC_Y0``                                                 float64    degree                                         Declination (J2000) at pixel position ``Y0``.
``X0``                                                     float32    pixel                                          Light-weighted position along the *x*-axis (from ``ellipse moments``).
``Y0``                                                     float32    pixel                                          Light-weighted position along the *y*-axis (from ``ellipse moments``).
``EPS``                                                    float32                                                   Ellipticity :math:`e=1-b/a`, where :math:`b/a` is the semi-minor to semi-major axis ratio ``BA`` given in the `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ table.
``PA``                                                     float32    degree                                         Galaxy position angle (astronomical convention, measured clockwise from North); equivalent to ``PA`` in the `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ table.
``THETA``                                                  float32    degree                                         Galaxy position angle (physics convention, measured clockwise from the *x*-axis), and given by [:math:`(270-PA)` mod 180].
``MAJORAXIS``                                              float32    pixel                                          Light-weighted length of the semi-major axis (from ``ellipse moments``).
``MAXSMA``                                                 float32    pixel                                          Maximum semi-major axis length used for the ellipse-fitting and curve-of-growth measurements (typically taken to be :math:`2\times` ``MAJORAXIS``).
``INTEGRMODE``                                             char[6]                                                   `photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image`_ integration mode (here, always *median*).
``SCLIP``                                                  int16                                                     `photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image`_ sigma-clipping (here, always *3*).
``NCLIP``                                                  int16                                                     Number of `photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image`_ sigma-clipping iterations (here, always *3*).
``PSFSIZE_[G,R,Z]``                                        float32    arcsec                                         Mean width of the point-spread function over the full mosaic (derived from the ``PSFSIZE_[G,R,Z]`` columns in the `Tractor catalogs`_).
``PSFDEPTH_[G,R,Z]``                                       float32    AB mag                                         Mean :math:`5\hbox{-}\sigma` depth over the full mosaic (derived from the ``PSFDEPTH_[G,R,Z]`` columns in the `Tractor catalogs`_).
``MW_TRANSMISSION_[G,R,Z]``                                float32                                                   Galactic transmission fraction (taken from the corresponding `Tractor catalog`_ at the central coordinates of the galaxy).
``REFBAND_WIDTH``                                          float32    pixel                                          Width of the optical mosaics in ``REFBAND``.
``REFBAND_HEIGHT``                                         float32    pixel                                          Height of the optical mosaics in ``REFBAND`` (always equal to ``REFBAND_WIDTH``).
``[G,R,Z]_SMA``                                            float32[N] pixel                                          Semi-major axis position, where ``N`` is the total number of (pixel) samples along the semi-major axis.
``[G,R,Z]_INTENS``                                         float32[N] :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` Linear surface brightness at the semi-major axis position given by ``[G,R,Z]_SMA``.
``[G,R,Z]_INTENS_ERR``                                     float32[N] :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_INTENS`` (:math:`1\sigma`).
``[G,R,Z]_EPS``                                            float32[N]                                                Ellipticity along the semi-major axis; here, taken to be fixed at the value given by ``EPS``.
``[G,R,Z]_EPS_ERR``                                        float32[N]                                                Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_EPS`` (:math:`1\sigma`).
``[G,R,Z]_PA``                                             float32[N] degree                                         Position angle along the semi-major axis; here, taken to be fixed at the value given by ``PA``.
``[G,R,Z]_PA_ERR``                                         float32[N] degree                                         Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_PA`` (:math:`1\sigma`).
``[G,R,Z]_X0``                                             float32[N] pixel                                          Pixel coordinate of the ellipse along the *x*-axis; here, taken to be fixed at the value given by ``X0``.
``[G,R,Z]_X0_ERR``                                         float32[N] pixel                                          Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_X0`` (:math:`1\sigma`).
``[G,R,Z]_Y0``                                             float32[N] pixel                                          Pixel coordinate of the ellipse along the *x*-axis; here, taken to be fixed at the value given by ``Y0``.
``[G,R,Z]_Y0_ERR``                                         float32[N] pixel                                          Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_Y0`` (:math:`1\sigma`).                       
``[G,R,Z]_A3``                                             float32[N]                                                Third-order harmonic coefficient (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_); not used.
``[G,R,Z]_A3_ERR``                                         float32[N]                                                Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_A3`` (:math:`1\sigma`).                       
``[G,R,Z]_A4``                                             float32[N]                                                Fourth-order harmonic coefficient (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_); not used.
``[G,R,Z]_A4_ERR``                                         float32[N]                                                Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_A4`` (:math:`1\sigma`).                       
``[G,R,Z]_RMS``                                            float32[N] :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` Root-mean-square of the surface brightness along the elliptical path (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_).
``[G,R,Z]_PIX_STDDEV``                                     float32[N] :math:`\mathrm{nanomaggies}/\mathrm{arcsec}^2` Estimate of the pixel standard deviation along the elliptical path (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_).
``[G,R,Z]_STOP_CODE``                                      int16[N]                                                  Fitting stop code (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_ and `photutils.isophote.Isophote`_).
``[G,R,Z]_NDATA``                                          int16[N]                                                  Number of data points used for the fit (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_).
``[G,R,Z]_NFLAG``                                          int16[N]                                                  Number of points rejected during the fit (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_).
``[G,R,Z]_NITER``                                          int16[N]                                                  Number of fitting iterations (see `photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`_).
``[G,R,Z]_COG_SMA``                                        float32[M] pixel                                          Semi-major axis position for the curve-of-growth aperture photometry measurements, where ``M`` is the total number of samples (in arcsec) along the semi-major axis.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_MAG``                                        float32[M] AB mag                                         Aperture photometry within the semi-major axis given by ``[G,R,Z]_COG_SMA``.
``[G,R,Z]_COG_MAGERR``                                     float32[M] AB mag                                         Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_COG_MAG`` (:math:`1\sigma`).                       
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_MTOT``                                float32    AB mag                                         Best-fitting parameter :math:`m_{1}` based on the fit to the curve of growth (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section).
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_M0``                                  float32    AB mag                                         Best-fitting parameter :math:`m_{0}` based on the fit to the curve of growth (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section).
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_ALPHA1``                              float32                                                   Best-fitting parameter :math:`\alpha_{1}` based on the fit to the curve of growth (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section).
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_ALPHA2``                              float32                                                   Best-fitting parameter :math:`\alpha_{2}` based on the fit to the curve of growth (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section).
``[G,R,Z]_COG_PARAMS_CHI2``                                float32                                                   Reduced :math:`\chi^{2}` of the fit to the curve of growth. *Note: large values of* :math:`\chi^{2}` *indicate a poor or problematic fit and should be inspected.*
``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]``          float32    arcsec                                         Semi-major axis length at the :math:`\mu=` 22, 22.5, 23, 23.5, 24, 24.5, 25, 25.5, and 26 :math:`\mathrm{mag}\ \mathrm{arcsec}^{-2}` isophote in the *r*-band (-1 if not measured).
``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]_ERR``      float32    arcsec                                         Uncertainty in ``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]`` (:math:`1\sigma`). *Note: can be -1 if there was an issue estimating the uncertainty.*
``[G,R,Z]_MAG_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]``     float32    AB mag                                         Cumulative brightness measured within the corresponding ``RADIUS_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]`` (-1 if not measured).
``[G,R,Z]_MAG_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]_ERR`` float32    AB mag                                         Uncertainty in ``[G,R,Z]_MAG_SB[22,22.5,23,23.5,24,24.5,25,25.5,26]`` (:math:`1\sigma`). *Note: can be -1 if there was an issue estimating the uncertainty.*
========================================================== ========== ============================================== ===============================================

SGA Bitmasks
============

The following tables document some of the bit-masks used in the SGA pipeline, as
listed in the `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ and `SGA-2020-nols.fits`_ catalogs. The bits
are enumerated as a power of two, e.g., in Python, the expression

.. code-block:: python
   
   'ELLIPSEBIT' & 2**1 != 0

would return a Boolean array of the objects fitted as type ``REX`` which were
too small to be ellipse-fit.

ELLIPSEBIT
----------

The following bits largely pertain to galaxies *with* `DR9`_ imaging; they
indicate why a given object in the `SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ catalog was not
ellipse-fit.

=== =================== ===============================
Bit Name                Description
=== =================== ===============================
0                       Not used; ignore.
1   ``REX_TOOSMALL``    Object was not ellipse-fit because it was classified as too-small type ``REX`` (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section for details).
2   ``NOTREX_TOOSMALL`` Object was not ellipse-fit because it was classified as too-small type ``EXP``, ``DEV``, or ``SER`` (see the `Ellipse-Fitting`_ section for details). 
3   ``FAILED``          Ellipse-fitting was attempted but failed.
4   ``NOTFIT``          Ellipse-fitting was not attempted *or* the ellipse-fitting results were rejected based on visual inspection; see `Known Issues`_ for additional information. 
4   ``REJECTED``        Ellipse-fitting was not attempted *or* the ellipse-fitting results were rejected based on visual inspection; see `Known Issues`_ for additional information. 
=== =================== ===============================

DROPBIT
-------

The following bits largely pertain to galaxies *without* `DR9`_ imaging; they
encode why an object in the `Final Parent Sample`_ sample was excluded from the
`SGA-2020-ls.fits`_ catalog.

=== ===========  ===============================
Bit Name         Description
=== ===========  ===============================
0                Not used; ignore.
1   ``NOGRZ``    Missing *grz* imaging (typically due to lying off the `DR9`_ footprint).
2   ``MASKED``   Fully masked (i.e., inverse variance equal to zero) in a :math:`\pm2` pixel box centered on the initial position of the galaxy (e.g., due to a bleed trail or other gap in optical imaging).
3                Not used; ignore.
4   ``ISPSF``    Fit as type ``PSF`` by *Tractor*. These objects were all inspected and verified to be extended sources; however, due to problems with segmentation or other issues they could not be fit successfully by *Tractor* as galaxies.
5   ``NEGFLUX``  Fit with a negative *r*-band flux by *Tractor*. These objects were all inspected and verified to be actual sources; however, due to problems with segmentation or other issues the *Tractor* fits were still problematic.
=== ===========  ===============================

Known Issues
============

**To be written/expanded.**

Some known issues include:

* Some magnitude errors based on the curve-of-growth as negative.
* Talk about the largest galaxies that were not ellipse-fit, including NGC0598.
* Galaxies fit as PSF or negative.
* Issues with building the final catalog: 



Future Plans
============

**To be written/expanded.**

* Infrared surface-brightness profiles in *W1-W4*.

Acknowledgments
===============

Use of the SGA-2020 data products *must* acknowledge the `Scientific Publication
Acknowledgment`_ for the DESI Legacy Imaging Surveys as well as the specific
`SGA acknowledgment`_.

The SGA-2020 was also made possible by contributions from the following
(current and former) undergraduate students at `Siena College`_:

- `Alissa Ronca`_
- `Luis Villa`_
- `Kevin Napier (University of Michigan)`_

.. _`Data Access`: https://sga.legacysurvey.org
.. _`SGA web-portal`: https://sga.legacysurvey.org
.. _`DESI Legacy Imaging Surveys DR9`: ../../dr9
.. _`DR9`: ../../dr9
.. _`unWISE`: http://unwise.me
.. _`Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI)`: http://desi.lbl.gov
.. _`DESI`: http://desi.lbl.gov
.. _`HyperLeda`: http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/
.. _`HyperLeda extragalactic database`: http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/
.. _`Third Reference Catalog of Bright Galaxies (RC3)`: https://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/VizieR?-source=VII/155
.. _`RC3`: https://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/VizieR?-source=VII/155
.. _`Tractor implementation details`: https://www.legacysurvey.org/dr9/description/#tractor-implementation-details
.. _`NASA Extragalactic Database (NED)`: https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu
.. _`McConnachie (2012)`: https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012AJ....144....4M/abstract
.. _`OpenNGC`: https://github.com/mattiaverga/OpenNGC
.. _`DR8`: ../../dr8
.. _`this notebook`: https://github.com/legacysurvey/legacypipe/blob/master/doc/nb/lslga-from-gaia.ipynb
.. _`Principal Catalogue of Galaxies`: https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1989A%26AS...80..299P/abstract
.. _`DR9 Tractor catalogs`: ../catalogs
.. _`external catalogs documentation`: ../external/#sga-large-galaxies
.. _`DR9 files documentation`: ../files
.. _`legacypipe`: https://github.com/legacysurvey/legacypipe
.. _`CCDs`: ../files/#survey-ccds-camera-dr9-fits-gz
.. _`metrics`: ../files/#other-files
.. _`DR9 image stacks`: ../files/#image-stacks-region-coadd
.. _`DR9 bitmasks`: ../bitmasks
.. _`Tractor catalog`: ../catalogs
.. _`Tractor catalogs`: ../catalogs
.. _`PSF documentation`: ../description/#psf
.. _`astropy`: https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable 
.. _`photutils`: https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/isophote.html
.. _`photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image`: https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/photutils.isophote.Ellipse.html#photutils.isophote.Ellipse.fit_image 
.. _`photutils.isophote.IsophoteList`: https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/photutils.isophote.IsophoteList.html#photutils.isophote.IsophoteList
.. _`photutils.isophote.Isophote`: https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/photutils.isophote.Isophote.html#photutils.isophote.Isophote
.. _`astropy.QTable`: https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/api/astropy.table.QTable.html#astropy.table.QTable
.. _`Michele Cappellari's mge.find_galaxy`: https://www-astro.physics.ox.ac.uk/~mxc/software/#mge
.. _`photutils.aperture`: https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/aperture.html
.. _`Observational Astronomy by Birney, Gonzalez, & Oesper`: https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/observational-astronomy/98B4694421AEB3953FE088D19BA0495C
.. _`DR9 Tractor catalogs`: ../catalogs
.. _`Scientific Publication Acknowledgment`: ../../acknowledgment/#scientific-publication-acknowledgment
.. _`SGA acknowledgment`: ../../acknowledgment/#siena-galaxy-atlas
.. _`Kevin Napier (University of Michigan)`: https://github.com/kjnapier
.. _`Alissa Ronca`: https://www.linkedin.com/in/alissa-ronca/
.. _`Luis Villa`: https://www.linkedin.com/in/luis-c-villa/
.. _`Siena College`: https://www.siena.edu
.. _`Contents of DR9`: ../../dr9/description/#contents-of-dr9
